　　1904

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF BLACK PETER

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　I have never known my friend to be in better form, both mental andphysical, than in the year '95. His increasing fame had brought withit an immense practice, and I should be guilty of an indiscretion if Iwere even to hint at the identity of some of the illustrious clientswho crossed our humble threshold in Baker Street. Holmes, however,like all great artists, lived for his art's sake, and, save in thecase of the Duke of Holdernesse, I have seldom known him claim anylarge reward for his inestimable services. So unworldly was he- orso capricious- that he frequently refused his help to the powerful andwealthy where the problem made no appeal to his sympathies, while hewould devote weeks of most intense application to the affairs ofsome humble client whose case presented those strange and dramaticqualities which appealed to his imagination and challenged hisingenuity.

　　In this memorable year '95, a curious and incongruous successionof cases had engaged his attention, ranging from his famousinvestigation of the sudden death of Cardinal Tosca- an inquirywhich was carried out by him at the express desire of His Holiness thePope- down to his arrest of Wilson, the notorious canary-trainer,which removed a plague-spot from the East End of London. Close onthe heels of these two famous cases came the tragedy of Woodman's Lee,and the very obscure circumstances which surrounded the death ofCaptain Peter Carey. No record of the doings of Mr. Sherlock Holmeswould be complete which did not include some account of this veryunusual affair.

　　During the first week of July, my friend had been absent so oftenand so long from our lodgings that I knew he had something on hand.The fact that several rough-looking men called during that time andinquired for Captain Basil made me understand that Holmes wasworking somewhere under one of the numerous disguises and names withwhich he concealed his own formidable identity. He had at least fivesmall refuges in different parts of London, in which he was able tochange his personality. He said nothing of his business to me, andit was not my habit to force a confidence. The first positive signwhich he gave me of the direction which his investigation was takingwas an extraordinary one. He had gone out before breakfast, and Ihad sat down to mine when he strode into the room, his hat upon hishead and a huge barbed-headed spear tucked like an umbrella underhis arm.

　　"Good gracious, Holmes!" I cried. "You don't mean to say that youhave been walking about London with that thing?"

　　"I drove to the butcher's and back."

　　"The butcher's?"

　　"And I return with an excellent appetite. There can be noquestion, my dear Watson, of the value of exercise before breakfast.But I am prepared to bet that you will not guess the form that myexercise has taken."

　　"I will not attempt it."

　　He chuckled as he poured out the coffee.

　　"If you could have looked into Allardyce's back shop, you would haveseen a dead pig swung from a hook in the ceiling, and a gentleman inhis shirt sleeves furiously stabbing at it with this weapon. I wasthat energetic person, and I have satisfied myself that by no exertionof my strength can I transfix the pig with a single blow. Perhapsyou would care to try?"

　　"Not for worlds. But why were you doing this?"

　　"Because it seemed to me to have an indirect bearing upon themystery of Woodman's Lee. Ah, Hopkins, I got your wire last night, andI have been expecting you. Come and join us."

　　Our visitor was an exceedingly alert man, thirty years of age,dressed in a quiet tweed suit, but retaining the erect bearing ofone who was accustomed to official uniform. I recognized him at onceas Stanley Hopkins, a young police inspector, for whose futureHolmes had high hopes, while he in turn professed the admiration andrespect of a pupil for the scientific methods of the famous amateur.Hopkins's brow was clouded, and he sat down with an air of deepdejection.

　　"No, thank you, sir. I breakfasted before I came round. I spentthe night in town, for I came up yesterday to report."

　　"And what had you to report?"

　　"Failure, sir, absolute failure."

　　"You have made no progress?"

　　"None."

　　"Dear me! I must have a look at the matter."

　　"I wish to heavens that you would, Mr. Holmes. It's my first bigchance, and I am at my wit's end. For goodness' sake, come down andlend me a hand."

　　"Well, well, it just happens that I have already read all theavailable evidence, including the report of the inquest, with somecare. By the way, what do you make of that tobacco pouch, found on thescene of the crime? Is there no clue there?"

　　Hopkins looked surprised.

　　"It was the man's own pouch, sir. His initials were inside it. Andit was of sealskin,- and he was an old sealer."

　　"But he had no pipe."

　　"No, sir, we could find no pipe. Indeed, he smoked very little,and yet he might have kept some tobacco for his friends.""No doubt. I only mention it because, if I had been handling thecase, I should have been inclined to make that the starting-point ofmy investigation. However, my friend, Dr. Watson, knows nothing ofthis matter, and I should be none the worse for hearing the sequenceof events once more. Just give us some short sketches of theessentials."

　　Stanley Hopkins drew a slip of paper from his pocket.

　　"I have a few dates here which will give you the career of thedead man, Captain Peter Carey. He was born in '45- fifty years of age.He was a most daring and successful seal and whale fisher. In 1883he commanded the steam sealer Sea Unicorn, of Dundee. He had thenhad several successful voyages in succession, and in the followingyear, 1884, he retired. After that he travelled for some years, andfinally he bought a small place called Woodman's Lee, near Forest Row,in Sussex. There he has lived for six years, and there he died justa week ago to-day.

　　"There were some most singular points about the man. In ordinarylife, he was a strict Puritan- a silent, gloomy fellow. Hishousehold consisted of his wife, his daughter, aged twenty, and twofemale servants. These last were continually changing, for it wasnever a very cheery situation, and sometimes it became past allbearing. The man was an intermittent drunkard, and when he had the fiton him he was a perfect fiend. He has been known to drive his wife anddaughter out of doors in the middle of the night and flog them throughthe park until the whole village outside the gates was aroused bytheir screams.

　　"He was summoned once for a savage assault upon the old vicar, whohad called upon him to remonstrate with him upon his conduct. Inshort, Mr. Holmes, you would go far before you found a moredangerous man than Peter Carey, and I have heard that he bore the samecharacter when he commanded his ship. He was known in the trade asBlack Peter, and the name was given him, not only on account of hisswarthy features and the colour of his huge beard, but for the humourswhich were the terror of all around him. I need not say that he wasloathed and avoided by every one of his neighbours, and that I havenot heard one single word of sorrow about his terrible end."You must have read in the account of the inquest about the man'scabin, Mr. Holmes, but perhaps your friend here has not heard of it.He had built himself a wooden outhouse- he always called it the'cabin'- a few hundred yards from his house, and it was here that heslept every night. It was a little, single-roomed hut, sixteen feet byten. He kept the key in his pocket, made his own bed, cleaned ithimself, and allowed no other foot to cross the threshold. There aresmall windows on each side, which were covered by curtains and neveropened. One of these windows was turned towards the high road, andwhen the light burned in it at night the folk used to point it outto each other and wonder what Black Peter was doing in there. That'sthe window, Mr. Holmes, which gave us one of the few bits ofpositive evidence that came out at the inquest.

　　"You remember that a stonemason, named Slater, walking from ForestRow about one o'clock in the morning- two days before the murder-stopped as he passed the grounds and looked at the square of lightstill shining among the trees. He swears that the shadow of a man'shead turned sideways was clearly visible on the blind, and that thisshadow was certainly not that of Peter Carey, whom he knew well. Itwas that of a bearded man, but the beard was short and bristledforward in a way very different from that of the captain. So hesays, but he had been two hours in the public-house, and it is somedistance from the road to the window. Besides, this refers to theMonday, and the crime was done upon the Wednesday.

　　"On the Tuesday, Peter Carey was in one of his blackest moods,flushed with drink and as savage as a dangerous wild beast. Heroamed about the house, and the women ran for it when they heard himcoming. Late in the evening, he went down to his own hut. About twoo'clock the following morning, his daughter, who slept with her windowopen, heard a most fearful yell from that direction, but it was nounusual thing for him to bawl and shout when he was in drink, so nonotice was taken. On rising at seven, one of the maids noticed thatthe door of the hut was open, but so great was the terror which theman caused that it was midday before anyone would venture down tosee what had become of him. Peeping into the open door, they saw asight which sent them flying, with white faces, into the village.Within an hour, I was on the spot and had taken over the case."Well, I have fairly steady nerves, as you know, Mr. Holmes, but Igive you my word, that I got a shake when I put my head into thatlittle house. It was droning like a harmonium with the flies andbluebottles, and the floor and walls were like a slaughter-house. Hehad called it a cabin, and a cabin it was, sure enough, for youwould have thought that you were in a ship. There was a bunk at oneend, a sea-chest, maps and charts, a picture of the Sea Unicorn, aline of logbooks on a shelf, all exactly as one would expect to findit in a captain's room. And there, in the middle of it, was the manhimself- his face twisted like a lost soul in torment, and his greatbrindled beard stuck upward in his agony. Right through his broadbreast a steel harpoon had been driven, and it had sunk deep intothe wood of the wall behind him. He was pinned like a beetle on acard. Of course, he was quite dead, and had been so from the instantthat he had uttered that last yell of agony.

　　"I know your methods, sir, and I applied them. Before I permittedanything to be moved, I examined most carefully the ground outside,and also the floor of the room. There were no footmarks.""Meaning that you saw none?"

　　"I assure you, sir, that there were none."

　　"My good Hopkins, I have investigated many crimes, but I havenever yet seen one which was committed by a flying creature. As longas the criminal remains upon two legs so long must there be someindentation, some abrasion, some trifling displacement which can bedetected by the scientific searcher. It is incredible that thisblood-bespattered room contained no trace which could have aided us. Iunderstand, however, from the inquest that there were some objectswhich you failed to overlook?"

　　The young inspector winced at my companion's ironical comments."I was a fool not to call you in at the time Mr. Holmes. However,that's past praying for now. Yes, there were several objects in theroom which called for special attention. One was the harpoon withwhich the deed was committed. It had been snatched down from a rack onthe wall. Two others remained there, and there was a vacant placefor the third. On the stock was engraved 'SS. Sea Unicorn, Dundee.'This seemed to establish that the crime had been done in a moment offury, and that the murderer had seized the first weapon which camein his way. The fact that the crime was committed at two in themorning, and yet Peter Carey was fully dressed, suggested that hehad an appointment with the murderer, which is home out by the factthat a bottle of rum and two dirty glasses stood upon the table.""Yes," said Holmes; "I think that both inferences are permissible.Was there any other spirit but rum in the room?"

　　"Yes, there was a tantalus containing brandy and whisky on thesea-chest. It is of no importance to us, however, since thedecanters were full, and it had therefore not been used.""For all that, its presence has some significance," said Holmes."However, let us hear some more about the objects which do seem to youto bear upon the case."

　　"There was this tobacco-pouch upon the table."

　　"What part of the table?"

　　"It lay in the middle. It was of coarse sealskin- the

　　straight-haired skin, with a leather thong to bind it. Inside was'P.C.' on the flap. There was half an ounce of strong ship's tobaccoin it."

　　"Excellent! What more?"

　　Stanley Hopkins drew from his pocket a drab-covered notebook. Theoutside was rough and worn, the leaves discoloured. On the firstpage were written the initials "J.H.N." and the date "1883." Holmeslaid it on the table and examined it in his minute way, whileHopkins and I gazed over each shoulder. On the second page were theprinted letters "C.P.R.," and then came several sheets of numbers.Another heading was "Argentine," another "Costa Rica," and another"San Paulo," each with pages of signs and figures after it."What do you make of these?" asked Holmes.

　　"They appear to be lists of Stock Exchange securities. I thoughtthat 'J.H.N.' were the initials of a broker, and that 'C.P.R.' mayhave been his client."

　　"Try Canadian Pacific Railway," said Holmes.

　　Stanley Hopkins swore between his teeth, and struck his thigh withhis clenched hand.

　　"What a fool I have been!" he cried. "Of course, it is as you say.Then 'J.H.N.' are the only initials we have to solve. I have alreadyexamined the old Stock Exchange lists, and I can find no one in1883, either in the house or among the outside brokers, whose initialscorrespond with these. Yet I feel that the clue is the mostimportant one that I hold. You will admit, Mr. Holmes, that there is apossibility that these initials are those of the second person who waspresent- in other words, of the murderer. I would also urge that theintroduction into the case of a document relating to large masses ofvaluable securities gives us for the first time some indication of amotive for the crime."

　　Sherlock Holmes's face showed that he was thoroughly taken abackby this new development.

　　"I must admit both your points," said he. "I confess that thisnotebook, which did not appear at the inquest, modifies any viewswhich I may have formed. I had come to a theory of the crime inwhich I can find no place for this. Have you endeavoured to traceany of the securities here mentioned?"

　　"Inquiries are now being made at the offices, but I fear that thecomplete register of the stockholders of these South American concernsis in South America, and that some weeks must elapse before we cantrace the shares."

　　Holmes had been examining the cover of the notebook with hismagnifying lens.

　　"Surely there is some discolouration here," said he.

　　"Yes, sir, it is a blood-stain. I told you that I picked the bookoff the floor."

　　"Was the blood-stain above or below?"

　　"On the side next the boards."

　　"Which proves, of course, that the book was dropped after thecrime was committed."

　　"Exactly, Mr. Holmes. I appreciated that point, and I conjecturedthat it was dropped by the murderer in his hurried flight. It lay nearthe door."

　　"I suppose that none of these securities have been found among theproperty of the dead man?"

　　"No, sir."

　　"Have you any reason to suspect robbery?"

　　"No, sir. Nothing seemed to have been touched."

　　"Dear me, it is certainly a very interesting case. Then there wasa knife, was there not?"

　　"A sheath-knife, still in its sheath. It lay at the feet of the deadman. Mrs. Carey has identified it as being her husband's property."Holmes was lost in thought for some time.

　　"Well," said he, at last, "I suppose I shall have to come out andhave a look at it."

　　Stanley Hopkins gave a cry of joy.

　　"Thank you, sir. That will, indeed, be a weight off my mind."Holmes shook his finger at the inspector.

　　"It would have been an easier task a week ago," said he. "But evennow my visit may not be entirely fruitless. Watson, if you can sparethe time, I should be very glad of your company. If you will call afour-wheeler, Hopkins, we shall be ready to start for Forest Row ina quarter of an hour."

　　Alighting at the small wayside station, we drove for some milesthrough the remains of widespread woods, which were once part ofthat great forest which for so long held the Saxon invaders at bay-the impenetrable "weald," for sixty years the bulwark of Britain. Vastsections of it have been cleared, for this is the seat of the firstiron-works of the country, and the trees have been felled to smelt theore. Now the richer fields of the North have absorbed the trade, andnothing save these ravaged groves and great scars in the earth showthe work of the past. Here, in a clearing upon the green slope of ahill, stood a long, low, stone house, approached by a curving driverunning through the fields. Nearer the road, and surrounded on threesides by bushes, was a small outhouse, one window and the doorfacing in our direction. It was the scene of the murder.Stanley Hopkins led us first to the house, where he introduced us toa haggard, gray-haired woman, the widow of the murdered man, whosegaunt and deep-lined face, with the furtive look of terror in thedepths of her red-rimmed eyes, told of the years of hardship andill-usage which she had endured. With her was her daughter, a pale,fair-haired girl, whose eyes blazed defiantly at us as she told usthat she was glad that her father was dead, and that she blessed thehand which had struck him down. It was a terrible household that BlackPeter Carey had made for himself, and it was with a sense of reliefthat we found ourselves in the sunlight again and making our way alonga path which had been worn across the fields by the feet of the deadman.

　　The outhouse was the simplest of dwellings, wooden-walled,shingle-roofed, one window beside the door and one on the fartherside. Stanley Hopkins drew the key from his pocket and had stoopedto the lock, when he paused with a look of attention and surprise uponhis face.

　　Somone has been tampering with it," he said.

　　There could be no doubt of the fact. The woodwork was cut, and thescratches showed white through the paint, as if they had been thatinstant done. Holmes had been examining the window.

　　"Someone has tried to force this also. Whoever it was has failedto make his way in. He must have been a very poor burglar.""This is a most extraordinary thing," said the inspector, "I couldswear that these marks were not here yesterday evening.""Some curious person from the village, perhaps," I suggested."Very unlikely. Few of them would dare to set foot in the grounds,far less try to force their way into the cabin. What do you think ofit, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"I think that fortune is very kind to us."

　　"You mean that the person will come again?"

　　"It is very probable. He came expecting to find the door open. Hetried to get in with the blade of a very small penknife. He couldnot manage it. What would he do?"

　　"Come again next night with a more useful tool."

　　"So I should say. It will be our fault if we are not there toreceive him. Meanwhile, let me see the inside of the cabin."The traces of the tragedy had been removed, but the furniture withinthe little room still stood as it had been on the night of thecrime. For two hours, with most intense concentration, Holmes examinedevery object in turn, but his face showed that his quest was not asuccessful one. Once only he paused in his patient investigation."Have you taken anything off this shelf, Hopkins?"

　　"No, I have moved nothing."

　　"Something has been taken. There is less dust in this corner ofthe shelf than elsewhere. It may have been a book lying on its side.It may have been a box. Well, well, I can do nothing more. Let us walkin these beautiful woods, Watson, and give a few hours to the birdsand the flowers. We shall meet you here later, Hopkins, and see ifwe can come to closer quarters with the gentleman who has paid thisvisit in the night."

　　It was past eleven o'clock when we formed our little ambuscade.Hopkins was for leaving the door of the hut open, but Holmes was ofthe opinion that this would rouse the suspicions of the stranger.The lock was a perfectly simple one, and only a strong blade wasneeded to push it back. Holmes also suggested that we should wait, notinside the hut, but outside it, among the bushes which grew roundthe farther window. In this way we should be able to watch our manif he struck a light, and see what his object was in this stealthynocturnal visit.

　　It was a long and melancholy vigil, and yet brought with itsomething of the thrill which the bunter feels when he lies beside thewater-pool, and waits for the coming of the thirsty beast of prey.What savage creature was it which might steal upon us out of thedarkness? Was it a fierce tiger of crime, which could only be takenfighting hard with flashing fang and claw, or would it prove to besome skulking jackal, dangerous only to the weak and unguarded?In absolute silence we crouched amongst the bushes, waiting forwhatever might come. At first the steps of a few belated villagers, orthe sound of voices from the village, lightened our vigil, but oneby one these interruptions died away, and an absolute stillness fellupon us, save for the chimes of the distant church, which told us ofthe progress of the night, and for the rustle and whisper of a finerain falling amid the foliage which roofed us in.

　　Half-past two had chimed, and it was the darkest hour which precedesthe dawn, when we all started as a low but sharp click came from thedirection of the gate. Someone had entered the drive. Again therewas a long silence, and I had begun to fear that it was a false alarm,when a stealthy step was heard upon the other side of the hut, and amoment later a metallic scraping and clinking. The man was trying toforce the lock. This time his skill was greater or his tool wasbetter, for there was a sudden snap and the creak of the hinges.Then a match was struck, and next instant the steady light from acandle filled the interior of the hut. Through the gauze curtain oureyes were all riveted upon the scene within.

　　The nocturnal visitor was a young man, frail and thin, with ablack moustache, which intensified the deadly pallor of his face. Hecould not have been much above twenty years of age. I have neverseen any human being who appeared to be in such a pitiable fright, forhis teeth were visibly chattering, and he was shaking in every limb.He was dressed like a gentleman, in Norfolk jacket and knickerbockers,with a cloth cap upon his head. We watched him staring round withfrightened eyes. Then he laid the candle-end upon the table anddisappeared from our view into one of the corners. He returned witha large book, one of the logbooks which formed a line upon theshelves. Leaning on the table, he rapidly turned over the leaves ofthis volume until he came to the entry which he sought. Then, withan angry gesture of his clenched hand, he closed the book, replaced itin the corner, and put out the light. He had hardly turned to leavethe hut when Hopkins's hand was on the fellow's collar, and I heardhis loud gasp of terror as he understood that he was taken. The candlewas relit, and there was our wretched captive, shivering andcowering in the grasp of the detective. He sank down upon thesea-chest, and looked helplessly from one of us to the other."Now, my fine fellow," said Stanley Hopkins, "who are you, andwhat do you want here?"

　　The man pulled himself together, and faced us with an effort atself-composure.

　　"You are detectives, I suppose?" said he. "You imagine I amconnected with the death of Captain Peter Carey. I assure you that Iam innocent."

　　"We'll see about that," said Hopkins. "First of all, what is yourname?"

　　"It is John Hopley Neligan."

　　I saw Holmes and Hopkins exchange a quick glance.

　　"What are you doing here?"

　　"Can I speak confidentially?"

　　"No, certainly not."

　　"Why should I tell you?"

　　"If you have no answer, it may go badly with you at the trial."The young man winced.

　　"Well, I will tell you," he said. "Why should I not? And yet Ihate to think of this old scandal gaining a new lease of life. Did youever hear of Dawson and Neligan?"

　　I could see, from Hopkins's face, that he never had, but Holmeswas keenly interested.

　　"You mean the West Country bankers," said he. "They failed for amillion, ruined half the county families of Cornwall, and Neligandisappeared."

　　"Exactly. Neligan was my father."

　　At last we were getting something positive, and yet it seemed a longgap between an absconding banker and Captain Peter Carey pinnedagainst the wall with one of his own harpoons. We all listenedintently to the young man's words.

　　"It was my father who was really concerned. Dawson had retired. Iwas only ten years of age at the time, but I was old enough to feelthe shame and horror of it all. It has always been said that my fatherstole all the securities and fled. It is not true. It was his beliefthat if he were given time in which to realize them, all would be welland every creditor paid in full. He started in his little yacht forNorway just before the warrant was issued for his arrest. I canremember that last night when he bade farewell to my mother. He leftus a list of the securities he was taking, and he swore that hewould come back with his honour cleared, and that none who had trustedhim would suffer. Well, no word was ever heard from him again. Boththe yacht and he vanished utterly. We believed, my mother and I,that he and it, with the securities that he had taken with him, wereat the bottom of the sea. We had a faithful friend, however, who isa business man, and it was he who discovered some time ago that someof the securities which my father had with him had reappeared on theLondon market. You can imagine our amazement. I spent months in tryingto trace them, and at last, after many doubtings and difficulties, Idiscovered that the original seller had been Captain Peter Carey,the owner of this hut.

　　"Naturally, I made some inquiries about the man. I found that he hadbeen in command of a whaler which was due to return from the Arcticseas at the very time when my father was crossing to Norway. Theautumn of that year was a stormy one, and there was a longsuccession of southerly gales. My father's yacht may well have beenblown to the north, and there met by Captain Peter Carey's ship. Ifthat were so, what had become of my father? In any case, if I couldprove from Peter Carey's evidence how these securities came on themarket it would be a proof that my father had not sold them, andthat he had no view to personal profit when he took them."I came down to Sussex with the intention of seeing the captain, butit was at this moment that his terrible death occurred. I read atthe inquest a description of his cabin, in which it stated that theold logbooks of his vessel were preserved in it. It struck me thatif I could see what occurred in the month of August, 1883, on boardthe Sea Unicorn, I might settle the mystery of my father's fate. Itried last night to get at these logbooks, but was unable to openthe door. To-night I tried again and succeeded, but I find that thepages which deal with that month have been torn from the book. It wasat that moment I found myself a prisoner in your hands.""Is that all?" asked Hopkins.

　　"Yes, that is all." His eyes shifted as he said it.

　　"You have nothing else to tell us?"

　　He hesitated.

　　"No, there is nothing."

　　"You have not been here before last night?"

　　"No.

　　"Then how do you account for that?" cried Hopkins, as he held up thedamning notebook, with the initials of our prisoner on the firstleaf and the blood-stain on the cover.

　　The wretched man collapsed. He sank his face in his hands, andtrembled all over.

　　"Where did you get it?" he groaned. "I did not know. I thought I hadlost it at the hotel."

　　"That is enough," said Hopkins, sternly. "Whatever else you haveto say, you must say in court. You will walk down with me now to thepolice-station. Well, Mr. Holmes, I am very much obliged to you and toyour friend for coming down to help me. As it turns out yourpresence was unnecessary, and I would have brought the case to thissuccessful issue without you, but, none the less, I am grateful. Roomshave been reserved for you at the Brambletye Hotel, so we can all walkdown to the village together."

　　"Well, Watson, what do you think of it?" asked Holmes, as wetravelled back next morning.

　　"I can see that you are not satisfied."

　　"Oh, yes, my dear Watson, I am perfectly satisfied. At the sametime, Stanley Hopkins's methods do not commend themselves to me. Iam disappointed in Stanley Hopkins. I had hoped for better things fromhim. One should always look for a possible alternative, and provideagainst it. It is the first rule of criminal investigation.""What, then, is the alternative?"

　　"The line of investigation which I have myself been pursuing. It maygive us nothing. I cannot tell. But at least I shall follow it tothe end."

　　Several letters were waiting for Holmes at Baker Street. He snatchedone of them up, opened it, and burst out into a triumphant chuckleof laughter.

　　"Excellent, Watson! The alternative develops. Have you telegraphforms? Just write a couple of messages for me: 'Sumner, ShippingAgent, Ratcliff Highway. Send three men on, to arrive ten to-morrowmorning.- Basil.' That's my name in those parts. The other is:'Inspector Stanley Hopkins, 46 Lord Street, Brixton. Come breakfastto-morrow at nine-thirty. Important. Wire if unable to come.- SherlockHolmes.' There, Watson, this infernal case has haunted me for tendays. I hereby banish it completely from my presence. To-morrow, Itrust that we shall hear the last of it forever."

　　Sharp at the hour named Inspector Stanley Hopkins appeared, and wesat down together to the excellent breakfast which Mrs. Hudson hadprepared. The young detective was in high spirits at his success."You really think that your solution must be correct?" asked Holmes."I could not imagine a more complete case."

　　"It did not seem to me conclusive."

　　"You astonish me, Mr. Holmes. What more could one ask for?""Does your explanation cover every point?"

　　"Undoubtedly. I find that young Neligan arrived at the BrambletyeHotel on the very day of the crime. He came on the pretence of playinggolf. His room was on the ground-floor, and he could get out when heliked. That very night he went down to Woodman's Lee, saw PeterCarey at the hut, quarrelled with him, and killed him with theharpoon. Then, horrified by what he had done, he fled out of thehut, dropping the notebook which he had brought with him in order toquestion Peter Carey about these different securities. You may haveobserved that some of them were marked with ticks, and the others- thegreat majority- were not. Those which are ticked have been traced onthe London market, but the others, presumably, were still in thepossession of Carey, and young Neligan, according to his ownaccount, was anxious to recover them in order to do the right thing byhis father's creditors. After his flight he did not dare to approachthe hut again for some time, but at last he forced himself to do so inorder to obtain the information which he needed. Surely that is allsimple and obvious?"

　　Holmes smiled and shook his head.

　　"It seems to me to have only one drawback, Hopkins, and that isthat it is intrinsically impossible. Have you tried to drive a harpoonthrough a body? No? Tut, tut my dear sir, you must really payattention to these details. My friend Watson could tell you that Ispent a whole morning in that exercise. It is no easy matter, andrequires a strong and practised arm. But this blow was deliveredwith such violence that the head of the weapon sank deep into thewall. Do you imagine that this anaemic youth was capable of sofrightful an assault? Is he the man who hobnobbed in rum and waterwith Black Peter in the dead of the night? Was it his profile that wasseen on the blind two nights before? No, no, Hopkins, it is anotherand more formidable person for whom we must seek."

　　The detective's face had grown longer and longer during Holmes'sspeech. His hopes and his ambitions were all crumbling about him.But he would not abandon his position without a struggle."You can't deny that Neligan was present that night, Mr. Holmes. Thebook will prove that. I fancy that I have evidence enough to satisfy ajury, even if you are able to pick a hole in it. Besides, Mr.Holmes, I have laid my hand upon my man. As to this terrible person ofyours, where is he?"

　　"I rather fancy that he is on the stair," said Holmes, serenely."I think, Watson, that you would do well to put that revolver whereyou can reach it." He rose and laid a written paper upon a side-table."Now we are ready," said he.

　　There had been some talking in gruff voices outside, and now Mrs.Hudson opened the door to say that there were three men inquiringfor Captain Basil.

　　"Show them in one by one," said Holmes.

　　"The first who entered was a little Ribston pippin of a man, withruddy cheeks and fluffy white side-whiskers. Holmes had drawn a letterfrom his pocket.

　　"What name?" he asked.

　　"James Lancaster."

　　"I am sorry, Lancaster, but the berth is full. Here is half asovereign for your trouble. Just step into this room and wait therefor a few minutes."

　　The second man was a long, dried-up creature, with lank hair andsallow cheeks. His name was Hugh Pattins. He also received hisdismissal, his half-sovereign, and the order to wait.

　　The third applicant was a man of remarkable appearance. A fiercebull-dog face was framed in a tangle of hair and beard, and twobold, dark eyes gleamed behind the cover of thick, tufted, overhungeyebrows. He saluted and stood sailor-fashion, turning his cap roundin his hands.

　　"Your name?" asked Holmes.

　　"Patrick Cairns."

　　"Harpooner?"

　　"Yes, sir. Twenty-six voyages."

　　"Dundee, I suppose?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"And ready to start with an exploring ship?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"What wages?"

　　"Eight pounds a month."

　　"Could you start at once?"

　　"As soon as I get my kit."

　　"Have you your papers?"

　　"Yes, sir." He took a sheaf of worn and greasy forms from hispocket. Holmes glanced over them and returned them.

　　"You are just the man I want," said he. "Here's the agreement on thesidetable. If you sign it the whole matter will be settled."The seaman lurched across the room and took up the pen."Shall I sign here?" he asked, stooping over the table.Holmes leaned over his shoulder and passed both hands over his neck."This will do," said he.

　　I heard a click of steel and a bellow like an enraged bull. The nextinstant Holmes and the seaman were rolling on the ground together.He was a man of such gigantic strength that, even with the handcuffswhich Holmes had so deftly fastened upon his wrists, he would havevery quickly overpowered my friend had Hopkins and I not rushed to hisrescue. Only when I pressed the cold muzzle of the revolver to histemple did he at last understand that resistance was vain. We lashedhis ankles with cord, and rose breathless from the struggle."I must really apologize, Hopkins," said Sherlock Holmes. "I fearthat the scrambled eggs are cold. However, you will enjoy the restof your breakfast all the better, will you not, for the thought thatyou have brought your case to a triumphant conclusion."Stanley Hopkins was speechless with amazement.

　　"I don't know what to say, Mr. Holmes," he blurted out at last, witha very red face. "It seems to me that I have been making a fool ofmyself from the beginning. I understand now, what I should neverhave forgotten, that I am the pupil and you are the master. Even now Isee what you have done, but I don't know how you did it or what itsignifies."

　　"Well, well," said Holmes, good-humouredly. "We all learn byexperience, and your lesson this time is that you should never losesight of the alternative. You were so absorbed in young Neligan thatyou could not spare a thought to Patrick Cairns, the true murdererof Peter Carey."

　　The hoarse voice of the seaman broke in on our conversation."See here, mister," said he, "I make no complaint of beingman-handled in this fashion, but I would have you call things by theirright names. You say I murdered Peter Carey, I say I killed PeterCarey, and there's all the difference. Maybe you don't believe whatI say. Maybe you think I am just slinging you a yarn."

　　"Not at all," said Holmes. "Let us hear what you have to say.""It's soon told, and, by the Lord, every word of it is truth. I knewBlack Peter, and when he pulled out his knife I whipped a harpoonthrough him sharp, for I knew that it was him or me. That's how hedied. You can call it murder. Anyhow, I'd as soon die with a roperound my neck as with Black Peter's knife in my heart.""How came you there?" asked Holmes.

　　"I'll tell it you from the beginning. just sit me up a little, so asI can speak easy. It was in '83 that it happened- August of that year.Peter Carey was master of the Sea Unicorn, and I was spareharpooner. We were coming out of the ice-pack on our way home, withhead winds and a week's southerly gale, when we picked up a littlecraft that had been blown north. There was one man on her- a landsman.The crew had thought she would founder and had made for theNorwegian coast in the dinghy. I guess they were all drowned. Well, wetook him on board, this man, and he and the skipper had some longtalks in the cabin. All the baggage we took off with him was one tinbox. So far as I know, the man's name was never mentioned, and onthe second night he disappeared as if he had never been. It wasgiven out that he had either thrown himself overboard or fallenoverboard in the heavy weather that we were having. Only one manknew what had happened to him, and that was me, for, with my own eyes,I saw the skipper tip up his heels and put him over the rail in themiddle watch of a dark night, two days before we sighted theShetland Lights.

　　"Well, I kept my knowledge to myself, and waited to see what wouldcome of it When we got back to Scotland it was easily hushed up, andnobody asked any questions. A stranger died by accident and it wasnobody's business to inquire. Shortly after Peter Carey gave up thesea, and it was long years before I could find where he was. I guessedthat he had done the deed for the sake of what was in that tin box,and that he could afford now to pay me well for keeping my mouth shut."I found out where he was through a sailor man that had met him inLondon, and down I went to squeeze him. The first night he wasreasonable enough, and was ready to give me what would make me free ofthe sea for life. We were to fix it all two nights later. When I came,I found him three parts drunk and in a vile temper. We sat down and wedrank and we yarned about old times, but the more he drank the lessI liked the look on his face. I spotted that harpoon upon the wall,and I thought I might need it before I was through. Then at last hebroke out at me, spitting and cursing, with murder in his eyes and agreat clasp-knife in his hand. He had not time to get it from thesheath before I had the harpoon through him. Heavens! what a yell hegave! and his face gets between me and my sleep. I stood there, withhis blood splashing round me, and I waited for a bit, but all wasquiet, so I took heart once more. I looked round, and there was thetin box on the shelf. I had as much right to it as Peter Carey,anyhow, so I took it with me and left the hut. Like a fool I left mybaccy-pouch upon the table.

　　"Now I'll tell you the queerest part of the whole story. I hadhardly got outside the hut when I heard someone coming, and I hidamong the bushes. A man came slinking along, went into the hut, gave acry as if he had seen a ghost, and legged it as hard as he could rununtil he was out of sight. Who he was or what he wanted is more than Ican tell. For my part I walked ten miles, got a train at TunbridgeWells, and so reached London, and no one the wiser.

　　"Well, when I came to examine the box I found there was no moneyin it, and nothing but papers that I would not dare to sell. I hadlost my hold on Black Peter and was stranded in London without ashilling. There was only my trade left. I saw these advertisementsabout harpooners, and high wages, so I went to the shipping agents,and they sent me here. That's all I know, and I say again that if Ikilled Black Peter, the law should give me thanks, for I saved themthe rice of a hempen rope."

　　"A very clear statement said Holmes, rising and lighting his pipe."I think, Hopkins, that you should lose no time in conveying yourprisoner to a place of safety. This room is not well adapted for acell, and Mr. Patrick Cairns occupies too large a proportion of ourcarpet."

　　"Mr. Holmes," said Hopkins, "I do not know how to express mygratitude. Even now I do not understand how you attained this result.""Simply by having the good fortune to get the right clue from thebeginning. It is very possible if I had known about this notebook itmight have led away my thoughts, as it did yours. But all I heardpointed in the one direction. The amazing strength, the skill in theuse of the harpoon, the rum and water, the sealskin tobacco-pouch withthe coarse tobacco-all these pointed to a seaman, and one who had beena whaler. I was convinced that the initials 'P.C.' upon the pouch werea coincidence, and not those of Peter Carey, since he seldom smoked,and no pipe was found in his cabin. You remember that I askedwhether whisky and brandy were in the cabin. You said they were. Howmany landsmen are there who would drink rum when they could getthese other spirits? Yes, I was certain it was a seaman.""And how did you find him?"

　　"My dear sir, the problem had become a very simple one. If it were aseaman, it could only be a seaman who had been with him on the SeaUnicorn. So far as I could learn he had sailed in no other ship. Ispent three days in wiring to Dundee, and at the end of that time Ihad ascertained the names of the crew of the Sea Unicorn in 1883. WhenI found Patrick Cairns among the harpooners, my research was nearingits end. I argued that the man was probably in London, and that hewould desire to leave the country for a time. I therefore spent somedays in the East End, devised an Arctic expedition, put forth temptingterms for harpooners who would serve under Captain Basil- and beholdthe result!"

　　"Wonderful!" cried Hopkins. "Wonderful!"

　　"You must obtain the release of young Neligan as soon aspossible," said Holmes. "I confess that I think you owe him someapology. The tin box must be returned to him, but, of course, thesecurities which Peter Carey has sold are lost forever. There's thecab, Hopkins, and you can remove your man. If you want me for thetrial, my address and that of Watson will be somewhere in Norway- I'llsend particulars later."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1904

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF CHARLES AUGUSTUS MILVERTON

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　THE ADVENTURE OF CHARLES AUGUSTUS MILVERTON

　　It is years since the incidents of which I speak took place, and yetit is with diffidence that I allude to them. For a long time, evenwith the utmost discretion and reticence, it would have beenimpossible to make the facts public, but now the principal personconcerned is beyond the reach of human law, and with due suppressionthe story may be told in such fashion as to injure no one. Itrecords an absolutely unique experience in the career both of Mr.Sherlock Holmes and of myself. The reader will excuse me if Iconceal the date or any other fact by which he might trace theactual occurrence.

　　We had been out for one of our evening rambles, Holmes and I, andhad returned about six o'clock on a cold, frosty winter's evening.As Holmes turned up the lamp the light fell upon a card on thetable. He glanced at it, and then, with an ejaculation of disgust,threw it on the floor. I picked it up and read:

　　CHARLES AUGUSTUS MILVERTON,

　　Appledore Towers,

　　Hampstead.

　　Agent.

　　"Who is he?" I asked.

　　"The worst man in London," Holmes answered, as he sat down andstretched his legs before the fire. "Is anything on the back of thecard?"

　　I turned it over.

　　"Will call at 6:30- C.A.M.," I read.

　　"Hum! He's about due. Do you feel a creeping, shrinking sensation,Watson, when you stand before the serpents in the Zoo, and see theslithery, gliding, venomous creatures, with their deadly eyes andwicked, flattened faces? Well, that's how Milverton impresses me. I'vehad to do with fifty murderers in my career, but the worst of themnever gave me the repulsion which I have for this fellow. And yet Ican't get out of doing business with him- indeed, he is here at myinvitation."

　　"But who is he?"

　　"I'll tell you, Watson. He is the king of all the blackmailers.Heaven help the man, and still more the woman, whose secret andreputation come into the power of Milverton! With a smiling face and aheart of marble, he will squeeze and squeeze until he has drained themdry. The fellow is a genius in his way, and would have made his markin some more savoury trade. His method is as follows: He allows itto be known that he is prepared to pay very high sums for letterswhich compromise people of wealth and position. He receives thesewares not only from treacherous valets or maids, but frequently fromgenteel ruffians, who have gained the confidence and affection oftrusting women. He deals with no niggard hand. I happen to know thathe paid seven hundred pounds to a footman for a note two lines inlength, and that the ruin of a noble family was the result. Everythingwhich is in the market goes to Milverton, and there are hundreds inthis great city who turn white at his name. No one knows where hisgrip may fall, for he is far too rich and far too cunning to work fromhand to mouth. He will hold a card back for years in order to playit at the moment when the stake is best worth winning. I have saidthat he is the worst man in London, and I would ask you how couldone compare the ruffian, who in hot blood bludgeons his mate, withthis man, who methodically and at his leisure tortures the soul andwrings the nerves in order to add to his already swollen money-bags?"I had seldom heard my friend speak with such intensity of feeling."But surely," said I, "the fellow must be within the grasp of thelaw?"

　　"Technically, no doubt, but practically not. What would it profita woman, for example, to get him a few months' imprisonment if her ownruin must immediately follow? His victims dare not hit back. If everhe blackmailed an innocent person, then indeed we should have him, buthe is as cunning as the Evil One. No, no, we must find other ways tofight him."

　　"And why is he here?"

　　"Because an illustrious client has placed her piteous case in myhands. It is the Lady Eva Blackwell, the most beautiful debutante oflast season. She is to be married in a fortnight to the Earl ofDovercourt. This fiend has several imprudent letters- imprudent,Watson, nothing worse- which were written to an impecunious youngsquire in the country. They would suffice to break off the match.Milverton will send the letters to the Earl unless a large sum ofmoney is paid him. I have been commissioned to meet him, and- tomake the best terms I can."

　　At that instant there was a clatter and a rattle in the streetbelow. Looking down I saw a stately carriage and pair, the brilliantlamps gleaming on the glossy haunches of the noble chestnuts. Afootman opened the door, and a small, stout man in a shaggyastrakhan overcoat descended. A minute later he was in the room.Charles Augustus Milverton was a man of fifty, with a large,intellectual head, a round, plump, hairless face, a perpetual frozensmile, and two keen gray eyes, which gleamed brightly from behindbroad, gold-rimmed glasses. There was something of Mr. Pickwick'sbenevolence in his appearance, marred only by the insincerity of thefixed smile and by the hard glitter of those restless andpenetrating eyes. His voice was as smooth and suave as hiscountenance, as he advanced with a plump little hand extended,murmuring his regret for having missed us at his first visit. Holmesdisregarded the outstretched hand and looked at him with a face ofgranite. Milverton's smile broadened, he shrugged his shouldersremoved his overcoat, folded it with great deliberation over theback of a chair, and then took a seat.

　　"This gentleman?" said he, with a wave in my direction. "Is itdiscreet? Is it right?"

　　"Dr. Watson is my friend and partner."

　　"Very good, Mr. Holmes. It is only in your client's interests that Iprotested. The matter is so very delicate-"

　　"Dr. Watson has already heard of it."

　　"Then we can proceed to business. You say that you are acting forLady Eva. Has she empowered you to accept my terms?"

　　"What are your terms?"

　　"Seven thousand pounds."

　　"And the alternative?"

　　"My dear sir, it is painful for me to discuss it, but if the moneyis not paid on the 14th, there certainly will be no marriage on the18th." His insufferable smile was more complacent than ever.Holmes thought for a little.

　　"You appear to me," he said, at last, "to be taking matters too muchfor granted. I am, of course, familiar with the contents of theseletters. My client will certainly do what I may advise. I shallcounsel her to tell her future husband the whole story and to trust tohis generosity."

　　Milverton chuckled.

　　"You evidently do not know the Earl," said he.

　　From the baffled look upon Holmes's face, I could see clearly thathe did.

　　"What harm is there in the letters?" he asked.

　　"They are sprightly- very sprightly," Milverton answered. "Thelady was a charming correspondent. But I can assure you that theEarl of Dovercourt would fail to appreciate them. However, since youthink otherwise, we will let it rest at that. It is purely a matter ofbusiness. If you think that it is in the best interests of your clientthat these letters should be placed in the hands of the Earl, then youwould indeed be foolish to pay so large a sum of money to regainthem." He rose and seized his astrakhan coat.

　　Holmes was gray with anger and mortification.

　　"Wait a little," he said. "You go too fast. We should certainly makeevery effort to avoid scandal in so delicate a matter."Milverton relapsed into his chair.

　　"I was sure that you would see it in that light," he purred."At the same time," Holmes continued, "Lady Eva is not a wealthywoman. I assure you that two thousand pounds would be a drain upon herresources, and that the sum you name is utterly beyond her power. Ibeg, therefore, that you will moderate your demands, and that you willreturn the letters at the price I indicate, which is, I assure you,the highest that you can get."

　　Milverton's smile broadened and his eyes twinkled humorously."I am aware that what you say is true about the lady's resources,"said he. "At the same time you must admit that the occasion of alady's marriage is a very suitable time for her friends andrelatives to make some little effort upon her behalf. They mayhesitate as to an acceptable wedding present. Let me assure themthat this little bundle of letters would give more joy than all thecandelabra and butter-dishes in London."

　　"It is impossible," said Holmes.

　　"Dear me, dear me, how unfortunate!" cried Milverton, taking out abulky pocketbook. "I cannot help thinking that ladies areill-advised in not making an effort. Look at this!" He held up alittle note with a coat-of-arms upon the envelope. "That belongs to-well, perhaps it is hardly fair to tell the name until to-morrowmorning. But at that time it will be in the hands of the lady'shusband. And all because she will not find a beggarly sum which shecould get by turning her diamonds into paste. It is such a pity!Now, you remember the sudden end of the engagement between theHonourable Miss Miles and Colonel Dorking? Only two days before thewedding, there was a paragraph in the Morning Post to say that itwas all off. And why? It is almost incredible, but the absurd sum oftwelve hundred pounds would have settled the whole question. Is it notpitiful? And here I find you, a man of sense, boggling about terms,when your client's future and honour are at stake. You surprise me,Mr. Holmes."

　　"What I say is true," Holmes answered. "The money cannot be found.Surely it is better for you to take the substantial sum which Ioffer than to ruin this woman's career, which can profit you in noway?"

　　"There you make a mistake, Mr. Holmes. An exposure would profit meindirectly to a considerable extent. I have eight or ten similar casesmaturing. If it was circulated among them that I had made a severeexample of the Lady Eva, I should find all of them much more open toreason. You see my point?"

　　Holmes sprang from his chair.

　　"Get behind him, Watson! Don't let him out! Now, sir, let us see thecontents of that notebook."

　　Milverton had glided as quick as a rat to the side of the room andstood with his back against the wall.

　　"Mr. Holmes, Mr. Holmes," he said, turning the front of his coat andexhibiting the butt of a large revolver, which projected from theinside pocket. "I have been expecting you to do something original.This has been done so often, and what good has ever come from it? Iassure you that I am armed to the teeth, and I am perfectly preparedto use my weapons, knowing that the law will support me. Besides, yoursupposition that I would bring the letters here in a notebook isentirely mistaken. I would do nothing so foolish. And now,gentlemen, I have one or two little interviews this evening, and it isa long drive to Hampstead." He stepped forward, took up his coat, laidhis hand on his revolver, and turned to the door. I picked up a chair,but Holmes shook his head, and I laid it down again. With bow, asmile, and a twinkle, Milverton was out of the room, and a few momentsafter we heard the slam of the carriage door and the rattle of thewheels as he drove away.

　　Holmes sat motionless by the fire, his hands buried deep in histrouser pockets, his chin sunk upon his breast, his eyes fixed uponthe glowing embers. For half an hour he was silent and still. Then,with the gesture of a man who has taken his decision, he sprang to hisfeet and passed into his bedroom. A little later a rakish youngworkman, with a goatee beard and a swagger, lit his clay pipe at thelamp before descending into the street. "I'll be back some time,Watson," said he, and vanished into the night. I understood that hehad opened his campaign against Charles Augustus Milverton, but Ilittle dreamed the strange shape which that campaign was destined totake.

　　For some days Holmes came and went at all hours in this attire,but beyond a remark that his time was spent at Hampstead, and thatit was not wasted, I knew nothing of what he was doing. At last,however, on a wild, tempestuous evening, when the wind screamed andrattled against the windows, be returned from his last expedition, andhaving removed his disguise he sat before the fire and laughedheartily in his silent inward fashion.

　　"You would not call me a marrying man, Watson?"

　　"No, indeed!"

　　"You'll be interested to hear that I'm engaged."

　　"My dear fellow! I congrat-"

　　"To Milverton's housemaid."

　　"Good heavens, Holmes!"

　　"I wanted information, Watson."

　　"Surely you have gone too far?"

　　"It was a most necessary step. I am a plumber with a risingbusiness, Escott, by name. I have walked out with her each evening,and I have talked with her. Good heavens, those talks! However, I havegot all I wanted. I know Milverton's house as I know the palm of myhand."

　　"But the girl, Holmes?"

　　He shrugged his shoulders.

　　"You can't help it, my dear Watson. You must play your cards as bestyou can when such a stake is on the table. However, I rejoice to saythat I have a hated rival, who will certainly cut me out the instantthat my back is turned. What a splendid night it is!"

　　"You like this weather?"

　　"It suits my purpose. Watson, I mean to burgle Milverton's houseto-night."

　　I had a catching of the breath, and my skin went cold at thewords, which were slowly uttered in a tone of concentrated resolution.As a flash of lightning in the night shows up in an instant everydetail of a wild landscape, so at one glance I seemed to see everypossible result of such an action- the detection, the capture, thehonoured career ending in irreparable failure and disgrace, myfriend himself lying at the mercy of the odious Milverton."For heaven's sake, Holmes, think what you are doing," I cried."My dear fellow, I have given it every consideration. I am neverprecipitate in my actions, nor would I adopt so energetic and, indeed,so dangerous a course, if any other were possible. Let us look atthe matter clearly and fairly. I suppose that you will admit thatthe action is morally justifiable, though technically criminal. Toburgle his house is no more than to forcibly take his pocketbook- anaction in which you were prepared to aid me."

　　I turned it over in my mind.

　　"Yes," I said, "it is morally justifiable so long as our object isto take no articles save those which are used for an illegal purpose."Exactly. Since it is morally justifiable, I have only to considerthe question of personal risk. Surely a gentleman should not laymuch stress upon this, when a lady is in most desperate need of hishelp?"

　　"You will be in such a false position."

　　"Well, that is part of the risk. There is no other possible way ofregaining these letters. The unfortunate lady has not the money, andthere are none of her people in whom she could confide. To-morrow isthe last day of grace, and unless we can get the letters to-night,this villain will be as good as his word and will bring about herruin. I must, therefore, abandon my client to her fate or I mustplay this last card. Between ourselves, Watson, it's a sporting duelbetween this fellow Milverton and me. He had, as you saw, the bestof the first exchanges, but my self-respect and my reputation areconcerned to fight it to a finish."

　　"Well, I don't like it, but I suppose it must be," said I. "Whendo we start?"

　　"You are not coming."

　　"Then you are not going," said I. "I give you my word of honour- andI never broke it in my life- that I will take a cab straight to thepolice-station and give you away, unless you let me share thisadventure with you."

　　"You can't help me."

　　"How do you know that? You can't tell what may happen. Anyway, myresolution is taken. Other people besides you have self-respect, andeven reputations."

　　Holmes had looked annoyed, but his brow cleared, and he clapped meon the shoulder.

　　"Well, well, my dear fellow, be it so. We have shared this same roomfor some years, and it would be amusing if we ended by sharing thesame cell. You know, Watson, I don't mind confessing to you that Ihave always had an idea that I would have made a highly efficientcriminal. This is the chance of my lifetime in that direction. Seehere!" He took a neat little leather case out of a drawer, and openingit he exhibited a number of shining instruments. "This is afirst-class, up-to-date burgling kit, with nickel-plated jemmy,diamond-tipped glass-cutter, adaptable keys, and every modernimprovement which the march of civilization demands. Here, too, ismy dark lantern. Everything is in order. Have you a pair of silentshoes?"

　　"I have rubber-soled tennis shoes."

　　"Excellent! And a mask?"

　　"I can make a couple out of black silk."

　　"I can see that you have a strong, natural turn for this sort ofthing. Very good, do you make the masks. We shall have some coldsupper before we start. It is now nine-thirty. At eleven we shalldrive as far as Church Row. It is a quarter of an hour's walk fromthere to Appledore Towers. We shall be at work before midnight.Milverton is a heavy sleeper, and retires punctually at ten-thirty.With any luck we should be back here by two, with the Lady Eva'sletters in my pocket."

　　Holmes and I put on our dress-clothes, so that we might appear to betwo theatre-goers homeward bound. In Oxford Street we picked up ahansom and drove to an address in Hampstead. Here we paid off our cab,and with our great coats buttoned up, for it was bitterly cold, andthe wind seemed to blow through us, we walked along the edge of theheath.

　　"It's a business that needs delicate treatment," said Holmes. "Thesedocuments are contained in a safe in the fellow's study, and the studyis the ante-room of his bed-chamber. On the other hand, like all thesestout, little men who do themselves well, he is a plethoric sleeper.Agatha- that's my fiancee- says it is a joke in the servants' hallthat it's impossible to wake the master. He has a secretary who isdevoted to his interests, and never budges from the study all day.That's why we are going at night. Then he has a beast of a dog whichroams the garden. I met Agatha late the last two evenings, and shelocks the brute up so as to give me a clear run. This is the house,this big one in its own grounds. Through the gate- now to the rightamong the laurels. We might put on our masks here, I think. You see,there is not a glimmer of light in any of the windows, andeverything is working splendidly."

　　With our black silk face-coverings, which turned us into two ofthe most truculent figures in London, we stole up to the silent,gloomy house. A sort of tiled veranda extended along one side of it,lined by several windows and two doors.

　　"That's his bedroom," Holmes whispered. "This door opens straightinto the study. It would suit us best, but it is bolted as well aslocked, and we should make too much noise getting in. Come round here.There's a greenhouse which opens into the drawing-room."The place was locked, but Holmes removed a circle of glass andturned the key from the inside. An instant afterwards he had closedthe door behind us, and we had become felons in the eyes of the law.The thick, warm air of the conservatory and the rich, chokingfragrance of exotic plants took us by the throat. He seized my hand inthe darkness and led me swiftly past banks of shrubs which brushedagainst our faces. Holmes had remarkable powers, carefully cultivated,of seeing in the dark. Still holding my hand in one of his, heopened a door, and I was vaguely conscious that we had entered a largeroom in which a cigar had been smoked not long before. He felt his wayamong the furniture, opened another door, and closed it behind us.Putting out my hand I felt several coats hanging from the wall, andI understood that I was in a passage. We passed along it and Holmesvery gently opened a door upon the right-hand side. Something rushedout at us and my heart sprang into my mouth, but I could havelaughed when I realized that it was the cat. A fire was burning inthis new room, and again the air was heavy with tobacco smoke.Holmes entered on tiptoe, waited for me to follow, and then verygently closed the door. We were in Milverton's study, and a portiereat the farther side showed the entrance to his bedroom.It was a good fire, and the room was illuminated by it. Near thedoor I saw the gleam of an electric switch, but it was unnecessary,even if it had been safe, to turn it on. At one side of thefireplace was a heavy curtain which covered the bay window we had seenfrom outside. On the other side was the door which communicated withthe veranda. A desk stood in the centre, with a turning-chair ofshining red leather. Opposite was a large bookcase, with a marble bustof Athene on the top. In the corner, between the bookcase and thewall, there stood a tall, green safe, the firelight flashing back fromthe polished brass knobs upon its face. Holmes stole across and lookedat it. Then he crept to the door of the bedroom, and stood withslanting head listening intently. No sound came from within. Meanwhileit had struck me that it would be wise to secure our retreat throughthe outer door, so I examined it. To my amazement, it was neitherlocked nor bolted. I touched Holmes on the arm, and he turned hismasked face in that direction. I saw him start, and he was evidentlyas surprised as I.

　　"I don't like it," he whispered, putting his lips to my very ear. "Ican't quite make it out. Anyhow, we have no time to lose.""Can I do anything?"

　　"Yes, stand by the door. If you hear anyone come, bolt it on theinside, and we can get away as we came. If they come the other way, wecan get through the door if our job is done, or hide behind thesewindow curtains if it is not. Do you understand?"

　　I nodded, and stood by the door. My first feeling of fear had passedaway, and I thrilled now with a keener zest than I had ever enjoyedwhen we were the defenders of the law instead of its defiers. The highobject of our mission, the consciousness that it was unselfish andchivalrous, the villainous character of our opponent, all added to thesporting interest of the adventure. Far from feeling guilty, Irejoiced and exulted in our dangers. With a glow of admiration Iwatched Holmes unrolling his case of instruments and choosing his toolwith the calm, scientific accuracy of a surgeon who performs adelicate operation. I knew that the opening of safes was aparticular hobby with him, and I understood the joy which it gavehim to be confronted with this green and gold monster, the dragonwhich held in its maw the reputations of many fair ladies. Turningup the cuffs of his dress-coat- he had placed his overcoat on a chair-Holmes laid out two drills, a jemmy, and several skeleton keys. Istood at the centre door with my eyes glancing at each of theothers, ready for any emergency, though, indeed, my plans weresomewhat vague as to what I should do if we were interrupted. For halfan hour, Holmes worked with concentrated energy, laying down one tool,picking up another, handling each with the strength and delicacy ofthe trained mechanic. Finally I heard a click, the broad green doorswung open, and inside I had a glimpse of a number of paper packets,each tied, sealed, and inscribed. Holmes picked one out, but it was ashard to read by the flickering fire, and he drew out his little darklantern, for it was too dangerous, with Milverton in the next room, toswitch on the electric light. Suddenly I saw him halt, listenintently, and then in an instant he had swung the door of the safe to,picked up his coat, stuffed his tools into the pockets, and dartedbehind the window curtain, motioning me to do the same.It was only when I had joined him there that I heard what hadalarmed his quicker senses. There was a noise somewhere within thehouse. A door slammed in the distance. Then a confused, dull murmurbroke itself into the measured thud of heavy footsteps rapidlyapproaching. They were in the passage outside the room. They paused atthe door. The door opened. There was a sharp snick as the electriclight was turned on. The door closed once more, and the pungent reekof a strong cigar was home to our nostrils. Then the footstepscontinued backward and forward, backward and forward, within a fewyards of us. Finally there was a creak from a chair, and the footstepsceased. Then a key clicked in a lock, and I heard the rustle ofpapers.

　　So far I had not dared to look out, but now I gently parted thedivision of the curtains in front of me and peeped through. From thepressure of Holmes's shoulder against mine, I knew that he was sharingmy observations. Right in front of us, and almost within our reach,was the broad, rounded back of Milverton. It was evident that we hadentirely miscalculated his movements, that he had never been to hisbedroom, but that he had been sitting up in some smoking or billiardroom in the farther wing of the house, the windows of which we had notseen. His broad, grizzled head, with its shining patch of baldness,was in the immediate foreground of our vision. He was leaning far backin the red leather chair, his legs outstretched, a long, black cigarprojecting at an angle from his mouth. He wore a semi-military smokingjacket, claret-coloured, with a black velvet collar. In his hand heheld a long, legal document which he was reading in an indolentfashion, blowing rings of tobacco smoke from his lips as he did so.There was no promise of a speedy departure in his composed bearing andhis comfortable attitude.

　　I felt Holmes's hand steal into mine and give me a reassuring shake,as if to say that the situation was within his powers, and that he waseasy in his mind. I was not sure whether he had seen what was only tooobvious from my position, that the door of the safe was imperfectlyclosed, and that Milverton might at any moment observe it. In my ownmind I had determined that if I were sure, from the rigidity of hisgaze, that it had caught his eye, I would at once spring out, throw mygreat coat over his head, pinion him, and leave the rest to Holmes.But Milverton never looked up. He was languidly interested by thepapers in his hand, and page after page was turned as he followedthe argument of the lawyer. At least, I thought, when he hasfinished the document and the cigar he will go to his room, but beforehe had reached the end of either, there came a remarkable development,which turned our thoughts into quite another channel.

　　Several times I had observed that Milverton looked at his watch, andonce he had risen and sat down again, with a gesture of impatience.The idea, however, that he might have an appointment at so strangean hour never occurred to me until a faint sound reached my earsfrom the veranda outside. Milverton dropped his papers and sat rigidin his chair. The sound was repeated, and then there came a gentle tapat the door. Milverton rose and opened it.

　　"Well," said he, curtly, "you are nearly half an hour late."So this was the explanation of the unlocked door and of thenocturnal vigil of Milverton. There was the gentle rustle of a woman'sdress. I had closed the slit between the curtains as Milverton'sface had turned in our direction, but now I ventured very carefully toopen it once more. He had resumed his seat, the cigar still projectingat an insolent angle from the corner of his mouth. In front of him, inthe full glare of the electric light, there stood a tall, slim, darkwoman, a veil over her face, a mantle drawn round her chin. Her breathcame quick and fast, and every inch of the lithe figure wasquivering with strong emotion.

　　"Well," said Milverton, "you made me lose a good night's rest, mydear. I hope you'll prove worth it. You couldn't come any othertime- eh?"

　　The woman shook her head.

　　"Well, if you couldn't you couldn't. If the Countess is a hardmistress, you have your chance to get level with her now. Bless thegirl, what are you shivering about? That's right. Pull yourselftogether. Now, let us get down to business." He took a notebook fromthe drawer of his desk. "You say that you have five letters whichcompromise the Countess d'Albert. You want to sell them. I want to buythem. So far so good. It only remains to fix a price. I should want toinspect the letters, of course. If they are really good specimens-Great heavens, is it you?"

　　The woman, without a word, had raised her veil and dropped themantle from her chin. It was a dark, handsome, clear-cut face whichconfronted Milverton- a face with a curved nose, strong, dark eyebrowsshading hard, glittering eyes, and a straight, thin-lipped mouth setin a dangerous smile.

　　"It is I," she said, "the woman whose life you have ruined."Milverton laughed, but fear vibrated in his voice. "You were so veryobstinate," said he. "Why did you drive me to such extremities? Iassure you I wouldn't hurt a fly of my own accord, but every man hashis business, and what was I to do? I put the price well within yourmeans. You would not pay."

　　"So you sent the letters to my husband, and he- the noblestgentleman that ever lived, a man whose boots I was never worthy tolace- he broke his gallant heart and died. You remember that lastnight, when I came through that door, I begged and prayed you formercy, and you laughed in my face as you are trying to laugh now, onlyyour coward heart cannot keep your lips from twitching. Yes, you neverthought to see me here again, but it was that night which taught mehow I could meet you face to face, and alone. Well, Charles Milverton,what have you to say?"

　　"Don't imagine that you can bully me," said he, rising to hisfeet. "I have only to raise my voice and I could call my servantsand have you arrested. But I will make allowance for your naturalanger. Leave the room at once as you came, and I will say no more."The woman stood with her hand buried in her bosom, and the samedeadly smile on her thin lips.

　　"You will ruin no more lives as you have ruined mine. You will wringno more hearts as you wrung mine. I will free the world of a poisonousthing. Take that, you hound- and that!- and that!- and that!"She had drawn a little gleaming revolver, and emptied barrel afterbarrel into Milverton's body, the muzzle within two feet of hisshirt front. He shrank away and then fell forward upon the table,coughing furiously and clawing among the papers. Then he staggeredto his feet, received another shot, and rolled upon the floor. "You'vedone me," he cried, and lay still. The woman looked at him intently,and ground her heel into his upturned face. She looked again, butthere was no sound or movement. I heard a sharp rustle, the nightair blew into the heated room, and the avenger was gone.No interference upon our part could have saved the man from hisfate, but, as the woman poured bullet after bullet into Milverton'sshrinking body I was about to spring out, when I felt Holmes's cold,strong grasp upon my wrist. I understood the whole argument of thatfirm, restraining grip- that it was no affair of ours, that justicehad overtaken a villain, that we had our own duties and our ownobjects, which were not to be lost sight of. But hardly had thewoman rushed from the room when Holmes, with swift, silent steps,was over at the other door. He turned the key in the lock. At the sameinstant we heard voices in the house and the sound of hurrying feet.The revolver shots had roused the household. With perfect coolnessHolmes slipped across to the safe, filled his two arms with bundles ofletters, and poured them all into the fire. Again and again he did it,until the safe was empty. Someone turned the handle and beat uponthe outside of the door. Holmes looked swiftly round. The letter whichhad been the messenger of death for Milverton lay, all mottled withhis blood, upon the table. Holmes tossed it in among the blazingpapers. Then he drew the key from the outer door, passed through afterme, and locked it on the outside. "This way, Watson," said he, "we canscale the garden wall in this direction."

　　I could not have believed that an alarm could have spread soswiftly. Looking back, the huge house was one blaze of light. Thefront door was open, and figures were rushing down the drive. Thewhole garden was alive with people, and one fellow raised aview-halloa as we emerged from the veranda and followed hard at ourheels. Holmes seemed to know the grounds perfectly, and he threadedhis way swiftly among a plantation of small trees, I close at hisheels, and our foremost pursuer panting behind us. It was a six-footwall which barred our path, but he sprang to the top and over. As Idid the same I felt the hand of the man behind me grab at my ankle,but I kicked myself free and scrambled over a grass-strewn coping. Ifell upon my face among some bushes, but Holmes had me on my feet inan instant, and together we dashed away across the huge expanse ofHampstead Heath. We had run two miles, I suppose, before Holmes atlast halted and listened intently. All was absolute silence behind us.We had shaken off our pursuers and were safe.

　　We had breakfasted and were smoking our morning pipe on the dayafter the remarkable experience which I have recorded, when Mr.Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, very solemn and impressive, was usheredinto our modest sitting-room.

　　"Good-morning, Mr. Holmes," said he; "good-morning. May I ask if youare very busy just now?"

　　"Not too busy to listen to you."

　　"I thought that, perhaps, if you had nothing particular on hand, youmight care to assist us in a most remarkable case, which occurred onlylast night at Hampstead."

　　"Dear me!" said Holmes. "What was that?"

　　"A murder- a most dramatic and remarkable murder. I know how keenyou are upon these things, and I would take it as a great favour ifyou would step down to Appledore Towers, and give us the benefit ofyour advice. It is no ordinary crime. We have had our eyes upon thisMr. Milverton for some time, and, between ourselves, he was a bit of avillain. He is known to have held papers which he used forblackmailing purposes. These papers have all been burned by themurderers. No article of value was taken, as it is probable that thecriminals were men of good position, whose sole object was toprevent social exposure."

　　"Criminals?" said Holmes. "Plural?"

　　"Yes, there were two of them. They were as nearly as possiblecaptured redhanded. We have their footmarks, we have theirdescription, it's ten to one that we trace them. The first fellowwas a bit too active, but the second was caught by the under-gardener,and only got away after a struggle. He was a middle-sized, stronglybuilt man- square jaw, thick neck, moustache, a mask over his eyes.""That's rather vague," said Sherlock Holmes. "My, it might be adescription of Watson!"

　　"It's true," said the inspector, with amusement. "It might be adescription of Watson."

　　"Well, I'm afraid I can't help you, Lestrade," said Holmes. "Thefact is that I knew this fellow Milverton, that I considered him oneof the most dangerous men in London, and that I think there arecertain crimes which the law cannot touch, and which therefore, tosome extent, justify private revenge. No, it's no use arguing. Ihave made up my mind. My sympathies are with the criminals rather thanwith the victim, and I will not handle this case."

　　Holmes had not said one word to me about the tragedy which we hadwitnessed, but I observed all the morning that he was in his mostthoughtful mood, and he gave me the impression, from his vacant eyesand his abstracted manner, of a man who is striving to recallsomething to his memory. We were in the middle of our lunch, when hesuddenly sprang to his feet. "By Jove, Watson, I've got it!" he cried."Take your hat! Come with me!" He hurried at his top speed downBaker Street and along Oxford Street, until we had almost reachedRegent Circus. Here, on the left hand, there stands a shop windowfilled with photographs of the celebrities and beauties of the day.Holmes's eyes fixed themselves upon one of them, and following hisgaze I saw the picture of a regal and stately lady in Court dress,with a high diamond tiara upon her noble head. I looked at thatdelicately curved nose, at the marked eyebrows, at the straight mouth,and the strong little chin beneath it. Then I caught my breath as Iread the time-honoured title of the great nobleman and statesman whosewife she had been. My eyes met those of Holmes, and he put hisfinger to his lips as we turned away from the window.

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1927

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF SHOSCOMBE OLD PLACE

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　Sherlock Holmes had been bending for a long time over a low-powermicroscope. Now he straightened himself up and looked round at me intriumph.

　　"It is glue, Watson," said he. "Unquestionably it is glue. Have alook at these scattered objects in the field!"

　　I stooped to the eyepiece and focussed for my vision.

　　"Those hairs are threads from a tweed coat. The irregular graymasses are dust. There are epithelial scales on the left. Thosebrown blobs in the centre are undoubtedly glue."

　　"Well," I said, laughing, "I am prepared to take your word for it.Does anything depend upon it?"

　　"It is a very fine demonstration," he answered. "In the St.Pancras case you may remember that a cap was found beside the deadpoliceman. The accused man denies that it is his. But he is apicture-frame maker who, habitually handles glue."

　　"Is it one of your cases?"

　　"No; my friend, Merivale, of the Yard, asked me to look into thecase. Since I ran down that coiner by the zinc and copper filings inthe seam of his cuff they have begun to realize the importance ofthe microscope." He looked impatiently at his watch. "I had a newclient calling, but he is overdue. By the way, Watson, you knowsomething of racing?"

　　"I ought to. I pay for it with about half my wound pension.""Then I'll make you my 'Handy Guide to the Turf.' What about SirRobert Norberton? Does the name recall anything?"

　　"Well, I should say so. He lives at Shoscombe Old Place, and Iknow it well, for my summer quarters were down there once. Norbertonnearly, came within your province once."

　　"How was that?"

　　"It was when he horsewhipped Sam Brewer, the well-known CurzonStreet money-lender, on Newmarket Heath. He nearly killed the man.""Ah, he sounds interesting! Does he often indulge in that way?""Well, he has the name of being a dangerous man. He is about themost daredevil rider in England- second in the Grand National a fewyears back. He is one of those men who have overshot their truegeneration. He should have been a buck in the days of the Regency- aboxer, an athlete, a plunger on the turf, a lover of fair ladies, and,by all account, so far down Queer Street that he may never find hisway back again."

　　"Capital, Watson! A thumb-nail sketch. I seem to know the man.Now, can you give me some idea of Shoscombe Old Place?""Only that it is in the centre of Shoscombe Park, and that thefamous Shoscombe stud and training quarters are to be found there.""And the head trainer," said Holmes, "is John Mason. You need notlook surprised at my knowledge, Watson, for this is a letter fromhim which I am unfolding. But let us have some more about Shoscombe. Iseem to have struck a rich vein."

　　"There are the Shoscombe spaniels," said I. "You hear of them atevery dog show. The most exclusive breed in England. They are thespecial pride of the lady of Shoscombe Old Place."

　　"Sir Robert Norberton's wife, I presume!"

　　"Sir Robert has never married. Just as well, I think, consideringhis prospects. He lives with his widowed sister, Lady BeatriceFalder."

　　"You mean that she lives with him?"

　　"No, no. The place belonged to her late husband, Sir James Norbertonhas no claim on it at all. It is only a life interest and reverts toher husband's brother. Meantime, she draws the rents every year.""And brother Robert, I suppose, spends the said rents?""That is about the size of it. He is a devil of a fellow and mustlead her a most uneasy life. Yet I have heard that she is devoted tohim. But what is amiss at Shoscombe?"

　　"Ah, that is just what I want to know. And here, I expect, is theman who can tell us."

　　The door had opened and the page had shown in a tall, clean-shavenman with the firm, austere expression which is only seen upon thosewho have to control horses or boys. Mr. John Mason had many of bothLinder his sway, and he looked equal to the task. He bowed with coldself-possession and seated himself upon the chair to which Holmeshad waved him.

　　"You had my note, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"Yes, but it explained nothing."

　　"It was too delicate a thing for me to put the details on paper. Andtoo complicated. It was only face to face I could do it.""Well, we are at your disposal."

　　"First of all, Mr. Holmes, I think that my employer, Si Robert,has gone mad."

　　Holmes raised his eyebrows. "This is Baker Street, not HarleyStreet," said he. "But why do you say so?"

　　"Well, sir, when a man does one queer thing, or two queer things,there may be a meaning to it, but when everything he does is queer,then you begin to wonder. I believe Shoscombe Prince and the Derbyhave turned his brain."

　　"That is a colt you are running?"

　　"Best in England, Mr. Holmes. I should know, if anyone does. Now,I'll be plain with you, for I know you are gentlemen of honour andthat it won't go beyond the room. Sir Robert has got to win thisDerby. He's up to the neck, and it's his last chance. Everything hecould raise or borrow is on the horse- and at fine odds, too! Youcan get forties now, but it was nearer the hundred when he began toback him."

　　"But how is that if the horse is so good?"

　　"The public don't know how good he is. Sir Robert has been tooclever for the touts. He has the Prince's half-brother out forspins. You can't tell 'em apart. But there are two lengths in afurlong between them when it comes to a gallop. He thinks of nothingbut the horse and the race. His whole life is on it. He's holdingoff the Jews till then. If the Prince falls him he is done.""It seems a rather desperate gamble, but where does the madness comein?"

　　"Well, first of all, you have only to look at him. I don't believehe sleeps at night. He is down at the stables at all hours. His eyesare wild. It has all been too much for his nerves. Then there is hisconduct to Lady Beatrice!"

　　"Ah! What is that?"

　　"They have always been the best of friends. They had the sametastes, the two of them, and she loved the horses as much as he did.Every day at the same hour she would drive down to see them- and,above all, she loved the Prince. He would prick up his ears when heheard the wheels on the gravel, and he would trot out each morningto the carriage to get his lump of sugar. But that's all over now.""Why?"

　　"Well, she seems to have lost all interest in the horses. For a weeknow she has driven past the stables with never so much as'Good-morning'!"

　　"You think there has been a quarrel?"

　　"And a bitter, savage, spiteful quarrel at that. Why else would hegive away her pet spaniel that she loved as if he were her child? Hegave it a few days ago to old Barnes, what keeps the Green Dragon,three miles off, at Crendall."

　　"That certainly did seem strange."

　　"Of course, with her weak heart and dropsy one couldn't expectthat she could get about with him, but he spent two hours everyevening in her room. He might well do what he could, for she hasbeen a rare good friend to him. But that's all over, too. He nevergoes near her. And she takes it to heart. She is brooding and sulkyand drinking, Mr. Holmes- drinking like a fish."

　　"Did she drink before this estrangement?"

　　"Well, she took her glass, but now it is often a whole bottle ofan evening. So Stephens, the butler, told me. It's all changed, Mr.Holmes, and there is something damned rotten about it. But then,again, what is master doing down at the old church crypt at night? Andwho is the man that meets him there?"

　　Holmes rubbed his hands.

　　"Go on, Mr. Mason. You get more and more interesting."

　　"It was the butler who saw him go. Twelve o'clock at night andraining hard. So next night I was up at the house and, sure enough,master was off again. Stephens and I went after him, but it wasjumpy work, for it would have been a bad job if he had seen us. He's aterrible man with his fists if he gets started, and no respecter ofpersons. So we were shy of getting too near, but we marked him downall right. It was the haunted crypt that he was making for, andthere was a man waiting for him there."

　　"What is this haunted crypt?"

　　"Well, sir, there is an old ruined chapel in the park. It is soold that nobody could fix its date. And under it there's a crypt whichhas a bad name among us. It's a dark, damp, lonely place by day, butthere are few in that county that would have the nerve to go near itat night. But master's not afraid. He never feared anything in hislife. But what is he doing there in the night-time?"

　　"Wait a bit!" said Holmes. "You say there is another man there. Itmust be one of your own stablemen, or someone from the house! Surelyyou have only to spot who it is and question him?"

　　"It's no one I know."

　　"How can you say that?"

　　"Because I have seen him, Mr. Holmes. It was on that second night.Sir Robert turned and passed us- me and Stephens, quaking in thebushes like two bunny-rabbits, for there was a bit of moon that night.But we could hear the other moving about behind. We were not afraid ofhim. So we up when Sir Robert was gone and pretended we were justhaving a walk like in the moonlight, and so we came right on him ascasual and innocent as you please. 'Hullo, mate! who may you be?' saysI.'. I guess he had not heard us coming, so he looked over hisshoulder with a face as if he had seen the devil coming out of hell.He let out a yell, and away he went as hard as he could lick it in thedarkness. He could run!- I'll give him that. In a minute he was out ofsight and hearing, and who he was, or what he was, we never found.""But you saw him clearly in the moonlight?"

　　"Yes, I would swear to his yellow face- a mean dog, I should say.What could he have in common with Sir Robert?"

　　Holmes sat for some time lost in thought.

　　"Who keeps Lady Beatrice Falder company?" he asked at last."There is her maid, Carrie Evans. She has been with her this fiveyears."

　　"And is, no doubt, devoted?"

　　Mr. Mason shuffled uncomfortably.

　　"She's devoted enough," he answered at last. "But I won't say towhom."

　　"Ah!" said Holmes.

　　"I can't tell tales out of school."

　　"I quite understand, Mr. Mason. Of course, the situation is clearenough. From Dr. Watson's description of Sir Robert I can realize thatno woman is safe from him. Don't you think the quarrel between brotherand sister may lie there?"

　　Well, the scandal has been pretty clear for a long time.""But she may not have seen it before. Let us suppose that she hassuddenly found it out. She waits to get rid of the woman. Herbrother will not permit it. The invalid, with her weak heart andinability to get about, has no means of enforcing her will. Thehated maid is still tied to her. The lady refuses to speak, sulks,takes to drink. Sir Robert in his anger takes her pet spaniel awayfrom her. Does not all this hang together?"

　　"Well, it might do- so far as it goes."

　　"Exactly! As far as it goes. How would all that bear upon the visitsby night to the old crypt? We can't fit that into our plot.""No, sir, and there is something more that I can't fit in. Whyshould Sir Robert want to dig up a dead body?"

　　Holmes sat up abruptly.

　　"We only found it out yesterday- after I had written to you.Yesterday Sir Robert had gone to London, so Stephens and I went downto the crypt. It was all in order, sir, except that in one cornerwas a bit of a human body."

　　"You informed the police, I suppose?"

　　Our visitor smiled grimly.

　　"Well, sir, I think it would hardly interest them. It was just thehead and a few bones of a mummy. It may have been a thousand yearsold. But it wasn't there before. That I'll swear, and so willStephens. It had been stowed away in a corner and covered over witha board, but that corner had always been empty before.""What did you do with it?"

　　"Well, we just left it there."

　　"That was wise. You say Sir Robert was away yesterday. Has hereturned?"

　　"We expect him back to-day."

　　"When did Sir Robert give away his sister's dog?"

　　"It was just a week ago to-day. The creature was howling outside theold well-house, and Sir Robert was in one of his tantrums thatmorning. He caught it up, and I thought he would have killed it.Then he gave it to Sandy Bain, the jockey, and told him to take thedog to old Barnes at the Green Dragon, for he never wished to see itagain."

　　Holmes sat for some time in silent thought. He had lit the oldestand foulest of his pipes.

　　"I am not clear yet what you want me to do in this matter, Mr.Mason," he said at last. "Can't you make it more definite?""Perhaps this will make it more definite, Mr. Holmes," said ourvisitor.

　　He took a paper from his pocket, and, unwrapping it carefully, heexposed a charred fragment of bone.

　　Holmes examined it with interest.

　　"Where did you get it?"

　　"There is a central heating furnace in the cellar under LadyBeatrice's room. It's been off for some time, but Sir Robertcomplained of cold and had it on again, Harvey runs it- he's one of mylads. This very morning he came to me with this which he foundraking out the cinders. He didn't like the look of it.""Nor do I," said Holmes. "What do you make of it, Watson?"It was burned to a black cinder, but there could be no question asto its anatomical significance.

　　"It's the upper condyle of a human femur," said I.

　　"Exactly!" Holmes had become very serious. "When does this ladtend to the furnace?"

　　"He makes it up every evening and then leaves it."

　　"Then anyone could visit it during the night?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"Can you enter it from outside?"

　　"There is one door from the outside. There is another which leads upby a stair to the passage in which Lady Beatrice's room is situated.""These are deep waters, Mr. Mason; deep and rather dirty. You saythat Sir Robert was not at home last night?"

　　"No, sir."

　　"Then, whoever was burning bones, it was not he."

　　"That's true, sir."

　　"What is the name of that inn you spoke of?"

　　"The Green Dragon."

　　"Is there good fishing in that part of Berkshire?" The honesttrainer showed very clearly upon his face that he was convinced thatyet another lunatic had come into his harassed life.

　　"Well, sir, I've heard there are trout in the mill-stream and pikein the Hall lake."

　　"That's good enough. Watson and I are famous fishermen- are wenot, Watson? You may address us in future at the Green Dragon. Weshould reach it to-night. I need not say that we don't want to seeyou, Mr. Mason, but a note will reach us, and no doubt I could findyou if I want you. When we have gone a little farther into thematter I will let you have a considered opinion."

　　Thus it was that on a bright May evening Holmes and I foundourselves alone in a first-class carriage and bound for the little"halt-on-demand" station of Shoscombe. The rack above us was coveredwith a formidable litter of rods, reels, and baskets. On reachingour destination a short drive took us to an old-fashioned tavern,where a sporting host, Josiah Barnes, entered eagerly into our plansfor the extirpation of the fish of the neighbourhood.

　　"What about the Hall lake and the chance of a pike?" said Holmes.The face of the innkeeper clouded.

　　"That wouldn't do, sir. You might chance to find yourself in thelake before you were through."

　　"How's that, then?"

　　"It's Sir Robert, sir. He's terrible jealous of touts. If you twostrangers were as near his training quarters as that he'd be after youas sure as fate. He ain't taking no chances, Sir Robert ain't.""I've heard he has a horse entered for the Derby."

　　"Yes, and a good colt, too. He carries all our money for the race,and all Sir Robert's into the Bargain. By the way"- he looked at uswith thoughtful eyes- "I suppose you ain't on the turf yourselves?""No, indeed. just two weary Londoners who badly need some goodBerkshire air."

　　"Well, you are in the right place for that. There is a deal of itlying about. But mind what I have told you about Sir Robert. He'sthe sort that strikes first and speaks afterwards. Keep clear of thepark."

　　"Surely, Mr. Barnes! We certainly shall. By the way, that was a mostbeautiful spaniel that was whining in the hall."

　　"I should say it was. That was the real Shoscombe breed. There ain'ta better in England."

　　"I am a dog-fancier myself," said Holmes. "Now, if it is a fairquestion, what would a prize dog like that cost?"

　　"More than I could pay, sir. It was Sir Robert himself who gave methis one. That's why I have to keep it on a lead. It would be off tothe Hall in a jiffy if I gave it its head."

　　"We are getting some cards in our hand, Watson," said Holmes whenthe landlord had left us. "It's not an easy one to play, but we maysee our way in a day or two. By the way, Sir Robert is still inLondon, I hear. We might, perhaps, enter the sacred domain to-nightwithout fear of bodily assault. There are one or two points on which Ishould like reassurance."

　　"Have you any theory, Holmes?"

　　"Only this, Watson, that something happened a week or so ago whichhas cut deep into the life of the Shoscombe household. What is thatsomething? We can only guess at it from its effects. They seem to beof a curiously mixed character. But that should surely help us. Itis only the colourless, uneventful case which is hopeless."Let us consider our data. The brother no longer visits thebeloved invalid sister. He gives away her favourite dog. Her dog,Watson! Does that suggest nothing to you?"

　　"Nothing but the brother's spite."

　　"Well, it might be so. Or- well, there is an alternative. Now tocontinue our review of the situation from the time that the quarrel,if there is a quarrel, began. The lady keeps her room, alters herhabits, is not seen save when she drives out with her maid, refuses tostop at the stables to greet her favourite horse, and apparently takesto drink. That covers the case, does it not?"

　　"Save for the business in the crypt."

　　"That is another line of thought. There are two, and I beg youwill not tangle them. Line A, which concerns Lady Beatrice, has avaguely sinister flavour, has it not?"

　　"I can make nothing of it."

　　"Well, now, let us take up line B, which concerns Sir Robert. Heis mad keen upon winning the Derby. He is in the hands of the Jews,and may at any moment be sold up and his racing stables seized byhis creditors. He is a daring and desperate man. He derives his incomefrom his sister. His sister's maid is his willing tool. So far we seemto be on fairly safe ground, do we not?"

　　"But the crypt?"

　　"Ah, yes, the crypt! Let us suppose, Watson- it is merely ascandalous supposition, a hypothesis put forward for argument'ssake- that Sir Robert has done away with his sister."

　　"My dear Holmes, it is out of the question."

　　"Very possibly, Watson. Sir Robert is a man of an honourablestock. But you do occasionally find a carrion crow among the eagles.Let us for a moment argue upon this supposition. He could not flythe country until he had realized his fortune, and that fortunecould only be realized by bringing off this coup with ShoscombePrince. Therefore, he has still to stand his ground. To do this hewould have to dispose of the body of his victim, and he would alsohave to find a substitute who would impersonate her. With the maidas his confidante that would not be impossible. The woman's body mightbe conveyed to the crypt, which is a place so seldom visited, and itmight be secretly destroyed at night in the furnace, leaving behind itsuch evidence as we have already seen. What say you to that, Watson?""Well, it is all possible if you grant the original monstroussupposition."

　　"I think that there is a small experiment which we may tryto-morrow, Watson, in order to throw some light on the matter.Meanwhile, if we mean to keep up our characters, I suggest that wehave our host in for a glass of his own wine and hold some highconverse upon eels and dace, which seems to be the straight road tohis affections. We may chance to come upon some useful local gossip inthe process."

　　In the morning Holmes discovered that we had come without ourspoon-bait for jack, which absolved us from fishing for the day. Abouteleven o'clock we started for a walk, and he obtained leave to takethe black spaniel with us.

　　"This is the place," said he as we came to two high park gateswith heraldic griffins towering above them. "About midday, Mr.Barnes informs me, the old lady takes a drive, and the carriage mustslow down while the gates are opened. When it comes through, andbefore it gathers speed, I want you, Watson, to stop the coachman withsome question. Never mind me. I shall stand behind this holly-bush andsee what I can see."

　　It was not a long vigil. Within a quarter of an hour we saw thebig open yellow barouche coming down the long avenue, with twosplendid, high-stepping gray carriage horses in the shafts. Holmescrouched behind his bush with the dog. I stood unconcernedlyswinging a cane in the roadway. A keeper ran out and the gates swungopen.

　　The carriage had slowed to a walk, and I was able to get a good lookat the occupants. A highly coloured young woman with flaxen hair andimpudent eyes sat on the left. At her right was an elderly person withrounded back and a huddle of shawls about her face and shoulders whichproclaimed the invalid. When the horses reached the highroad I held upmy hand with an authoritative gesture, and as the coachman pulled up Iinquired if Sir Robert was at Shoscombe Old Place.

　　At the same moment Holmes stepped out and released the spaniel. Witha joyous cry it dashed forward to the carriage and sprang upon thestep. Then in a moment its eager greeting changed to furious rage, andit snapped at the black skirt above it.

　　"Drive on! Drive on!" shrieked a harsh voice. The coachman lashedthe horses, and we were left standing in the roadway.

　　"Well, Watson, that's done it," said Holmes as he fastened thelead to the neck of the excited spaniel. "He thought it was hismistress, and he found it was a stranger. Dogs don't make mistakes.""But it was the voice of a man!" I cried.

　　"Exactly! We have added one card to our hand, Watson, But it needscareful playing, all the same."

　　My companion seemed to have no further plans for the day, and we didactually use our fishing tackle in the mill-stream, with the resultthat we had a dish of trout for our supper. It was only after thatmeal that Holmes showed signs of renewed activity. Once more wefound ourselves upon the same road as in the morning, which led usto the park gates. A tall, dark figure was awaiting us there, whoproved to be our London acquaintance, Mr. John Mason, the trainer."Good-evening, gentlemen," said he. "I got your note, Mr. Holmes.Sir Robert has not returned yet, but I hear that he is expectedto-night."

　　"How far is this crypt from the house?" asked Holmes.

　　"A good quarter of a mile."

　　"Then I think we can disregard him altogether."

　　"I can't afford to do that, Mr. Holmes. The moment he arrives hewill want to see me to get the last news of Shoscombe Prince.""I see! In that case we must work without you, Mr. Mason. You canshow us the crypt and then leave us."

　　It was pitch-dark and without a moon, but Mason led us over thegrasslands until a dark mass loomed tip in front of us which proved tobe the ancient chapel. We entered the broken gap which was once theporch, and our guide, stumbling among heaps of loose masonry, pickedhis way to the corner of the building, where a steep stair led downinto the crypt. Striking a match, he illuminated the Melancholy place-dismal and evil-smelling, with ancient crumbling walls of rough-hewnstone, and piles of coffins, some of lead and some of stone, extendingupon one side right up to the arched and groined roof which lostitself in the shadows above our heads. Holmes had lit his lantern,which shot a tiny tunnel of vivid yellow light upon the mournfulscene. Its rays were reflected back from the coffin-plates, many ofthem adorned with the griffin and coronet of this old family whichcarried its honours even to the gate of Death.

　　"You spoke of some bones, Mr. Mason. Could you show them beforeyou go?"

　　"They are here in this corner." The trainer strode across and thenstood in silent surprise as our light was turned upon the place. "Theyare gone," said he.

　　"So I expected," said Holmes, chuckling. "I fancy the ashes ofthem might even now be found in that oven which had already consumed apart."

　　"But why in the world would anyone want to burn the bones of a manwho has been dead a thousand years?" asked John Mason.

　　"That is what we are here to find out," said Holmes. "It may meana long search, and we need not detain you. I fancy that we shall getour solution before morning."

　　When John Mason had left us, Holmes set to work making a verycareful examination of the graves, ranging from a very ancient one,which appeared to be Saxon, in the centre, through a long line ofNorman Hugos and Odos, until we reached the Sir William and SirDenis Falder of the eighteenth century. It was an hour or morebefore Holmes came to a leaden coffin standing on end before theentrance to the vault. I heard his little cry of satisfaction andwas aware from his hurried but purposeful movements that he hadreached a goal. With his lens he was eagerly examining the edges ofthe heavy lid. Then he drew from his pocket a short jemmy, abox-opener, which he thrust into a chink, levering back the wholefront, which seemed to be secured by only a couple of clamps. Therewas a rending, tearing sound as it gave way, but it had hardlyhinged back and partly revealed the contents before we had anunforeseen interruption.

　　Someone was walking in the chapel above. It was the firm, rapid stepof one who came with a definite purpose and knew, well the ground uponwhich he walked. A light streamed down the stairs, and an instantlater the man who bore it was framed in the Gothic archway. He was aterrible figure, huge in stature and fierce in manner. A largestable-lantern which he field in front of him shone upward upon astrong, heavily moustached face and angry eyes, which glared round himinto every recess of the vault, finally fixing themselves with adeadly stare upon my companion and myself.

　　"Who the, devil are you?" he thundered. "And what are you doing uponmy property?" Then, as Holmes returned no answer, he took a coupleof steps forward and raised a heavy stick which he carried. "Do youhear me?" he cried. "Who are you? What are you doing here?" His cudgelquivered in the air.

　　But instead of shrinking Holmes advanced to meet him.

　　"I also have a question to ask you, Sir Robert," he said in hissternest tone. "Who is this? And what is it doing here?"He turned and tore open the coffin-lid behind him. In the glare ofthe lantern I saw a body swathed in a sheet from head to foot, withdreadful, witchlike features, all nose and chin, projecting at oneend, the dim, glazed eyes staring from a discoloured and crumblingface.

　　The baronet had staggered back with a cry and supported himselfagainst a stone sarcophagus.

　　"How came you to know of this?" he cried. And then, with some returnof his truculent mariner: "What business is it of yours?""My name is Sherlock Holmes," said my companion. "Possibly it isfamiliar to you. In any case, my business is that of every othergood citizen- to uphold the law. It seems to me that you have muchto answer for."

　　Sir Robert glared for a moment, but Holmes's quiet voice and cool,assured manner had their effect.

　　"'Fore God, Mr. Holmes, it's all right," said he. "Appearances areagainst me, I'll admit, but I could act no otherwise."

　　"I should be happy to think so, but I fear your explanations must bebefore the police."

　　Sir Robert shrugged his broad shoulders.

　　"Well, if it must be, it must. Come up to the house and you canjudge for yourself how the matter stands."

　　A quarter of an hour later we found ourselves in what I judge,from the lines of polished barrels behind glass covers, to be thegun-room of the old house. It was comfortably furnished, and hereSir Robert left us for a few moments. When he returned he had twocompanions with him; the one, the florid young woman whom we hadseen in the carriage; the other, a small rat-faced man with adisagreeably furtive manner. These two wore an appearance of utterbewilderment, which showed that the baronet had not yet had time toexplain to them the turn events had taken.

　　"There," said Sir Robert with a wave of his hand, "are Mr. andMrs. Norlett. Mrs. Norlett, under her maiden name of Evans, has forsome years been my sister's confidential maid. I have brought themhere because I feel that my best course is to explain the trueposition to you, and they are the two people upon earth who cansubstantiate what I say."

　　"Is this necessary, Sir Robert? Have you thought what you aredoing?" cried the woman.

　　"As to me, I entirely disclaim all responsibility," said herhusband.

　　Sir Robert gave him a glance of contempt. "I will take allresponsibility," said he. "Now, Mr. Holmes, listen to a plainstatement of the facts.

　　"You have clearly gone pretty deeply into my affairs or I should nothave found you where I did. Therefore, you know already, in allprobability, that I am running a dark horse for the Derby and thateverything depends upon my success. If I win, all is easy. If Ilose- well, I dare not think of that!"

　　"I understand the position," said Holmes.

　　"I am dependent upon my sister, Lady Beatrice, for everything. Butit is well known that her interest in the estate is for her own lifeonly. For myself, I am deeply in the hands of the Jews. I havealways known that if my sister were to die my creditors would be on tomy estate like a flock of vultures. Everything would be seized- mystables, my horses- everything. Well, Mr. Holmes, my sister did diejust a week ago."

　　"And you told no one!"

　　"What could I do? Absolute ruin faced me. If I could stave thingsoff for three weeks all would be well. Her maid's husband- this manhere- is an actor. It came into our heads- it came into my head-that he could for that short period personate my sister. It was buta case of appearing daily in the carriage, for no one need enter herroom save the maid. It was not difficult to arrange. My sister died ofthe dropsy which had long afflicted her."

　　"That will be for a coroner to decide."

　　"Her doctor would certify that for months her symptoms havethreatened such an end."

　　"Well, what did you do?"

　　"The body could not remain there. On the first night Norlett and Icarried it out to the old well-house, which is now never used. We werefollowed, however, by her pet spaniel, which yapped continually at thedoor, so I felt some safer place was needed. I got rid of the spaniel,and we carried the body to the crypt of the church. There was noindignity or irreverence, Mr. Holmes. I do not feel that I havewronged the dead."

　　"Your conduct seems to me inexcusable, Sir Robert."

　　The baronet shook his head impatiently. "It is easy to preach," saidhe. "Perhaps you would have felt differently if you had been in myposition. One cannot see all one's hopes and all one's plans shatteredat the last moment and make no effort to save them. It seemed to methat it would be no unworthy resting-place if we put her for thetime in one of the coffins of her husband's ancestors lying in what isstill consecrated ground. We opened such a coffin, removed thecontents, and placed her as you have seen her. As to the old relicswhich we took out, we could not leave them on the floor of thecrypt. Norlett and I removed them, and he descended at night andburned them in the central furnace. There is my story, Mr. Holmes,though how you forced my hand so that I have to tell it is more than Ican say."

　　Holmes sat for some time lost in thought.

　　"There is one flaw in your narrative, Sir Robert," he said atlast. "Your bets on the race, and therefore your hopes for the future,would hold good even if your creditors seized your estate.""The horse would be part of the estate. What do they care for mybets? As likely as not they would not run him at all. My chiefcrediter is, unhappily, my most bitter enemy- a rascally fellow, SamBrewer, whom I was once compelled to horsewhip on Newmarket Heath.Do you suppose that he would try to save me?"

　　"Well, Sir Robert," said Holmes, rising, "this matter must, ofcourse, be referred to the police. It was my duty to bring the factsto light, and there I must leave it. As to the morality or decencyof your conduct, it is not for me to express an opinion. It isnearly midnight, Watson, and I think we may make our way back to ourhumble abode."

　　It is generally known now that this singular episode ended upon ahappier note than Sir Robert's actions deserved. Shoscombe Princedid win the Derby, the sporting owner did net eighty thousand poundsin bets, and the creditors did hold their hand until the race wasover, when they were paid in full, and enough was left toreestablish Sir Robert in a fair position in life. Both police andcoroner took a lenient view, of the transaction, and beyond a mildcensure for the delay in registering the lady's decease, the luckyowner got away scatheless from this strange incident in a career whichhas now outlived its shadows and promises to end in an honoured oldage.

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1904

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE ABBEY GRANGE

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　It was on a bitterly cold night and frosty morning, towards theend of the winter of '97, that I was awakened by a tugging at myshoulder. It was Holmes. The candle in his hand shone upon hiseager, stooping face, and told me at a glance that something wasamiss.

　　"Come, Watson, come!" he cried. "The game is afoot. Not a word! Intoyour clothes and come!"

　　Ten minutes later we were both in a cab, and rattling through thesilent streets on our way to Charing Cross Station. The first faintwinter's dawn was beginning to appear, and we could dimly see theoccasional figure of an early workman as he passed us, blurred andindistinct in the opalescent London reek. Holmes nestled in silenceinto his heavy coat, and I was glad to do the same, for the air wasmost bitter, and neither of us had broken our fast.

　　It was not until we had consumed some hot tea at the station andtaken our places in the Kentish train that we were sufficientlythawed, he to speak and I to listen. Holmes drew a note from hispocket, and read aloud:

　　'Abbey Grange, Marsham, Kent,

　　'3:30 A.M.

　　'MY DEAR MR. HOLMES:

　　I should be very glad of your immediate assistance in whatpromises to be a most remarkable case. It is something quite in yourline. Except for releasing the lady I will see that everything is keptexactly as I have found it, but I beg you not to lose an instant, asit is difficult to leave Sir Eustace there.

　　'Yours faithfully,

　　'STANLEY HOPKINS.

　　"Hopkins has called me in seven times, and on each occasion hissummons has been entirely justified," said Holmes. "I fancy that everyone of his cases has found its way into your collection, and I mustadmit, Watson, that you have some power of selection, which atones formuch which I deplore in your narratives. Your fatal habit of lookingat everything from the point of view of a story instead of as ascientific exercise has ruined what might have been an instructive andeven classical series of demonstrations. You slur over work of theutmost finesse and delicacy, in order to dwell upon sensationaldetails which may excite, but cannot possibly instruct, the reader.""Why do you not write them yourself?" I said, with some bitterness."I will, my dear Watson, I will. At present I am, as you know,fairly busy, but I propose to devote my declining years to thecomposition of a textbook, which shall focus the whole art ofdetection into one volume. Our present research appears to be a caseof murder."

　　"You think this Sir Eustace is dead, then?"

　　"I should say so. Hopkins's writing shows considerable agitation,and he is not an emotional man. Yes, I gather there has been violence,and that the body is left for our inspection. A mere suicide would nothave caused him to send for me. As to the release of the lady, itwould appear that she has been locked in her room during thetragedy. We are moving in high life, Watson, crackling paper, 'E.B.'monogram, coat-of-arms, picturesque address. I think that friendHopkins will live up to his reputation, and that we shall have aninteresting morning. The crime was committed before twelve lastnight."

　　"How can you possibly tell?"

　　"By an inspection of the trains, and by reckoning the time. Thelocal police had to be called in, they had to communicate withScotland Yard, Hopkins had to go out, and he in turn had to send forme. All that makes a fair night's work. Well, here we are atChiselhurst Station, and we shall soon set our doubts at rest."A drive of a couple of miles through narrow country lanes brought usto a park gate, which was opened for us by an old lodge-keeper,whose haggard face bore the reflection of some great disaster. Theavenue ran through a noble park, between lines of ancient elms, andended in a low, widespread house, pillared in front after thefashion of Palladio. The central part was evidently of a great age andshrouded in ivy, but the large windows showed that modern changeshad been carried out, and one wing of the house appeared to beentirely new. The youthful figure and alert, eager face of InspectorStanley Hopkins confronted us in the open doorway.

　　"I'm very glad you have come, Mr. Holmes. And you, too, Dr.Watson. But, indeed, if I had my time over again, I should not havetroubled you, for since the lady has come to herself, she has given soclear an account of the affair that there is not much left for us todo. You remember that Lewisham gang of burglars?"

　　"What, the three Randalls?"

　　"Exactly; the father and two sons. It's their work. I have not adoubt of it. They did a job at Sydenham a fortnight ago and wereseen and described. Rather cool to do another so soon and so near, butit is they, beyond all doubt. It's a hanging matter this time.""Sir Eustace is dead, then?"

　　"Yes, his head was knocked in with his own poker."

　　"Sir Eustace Brackenstall, the driver tells me."

　　"Exactly- one of the richest men in Kent- Lady Brackenstall is inthe morning-room. Poor lady, she has had a most dreadful experience.She seemed half dead when I saw her first. I think you had best seeher and hear her account of the facts. Then we will examine thedining-room together."

　　Lady Brackenstall was no ordinary person. Seldom have I seen sograceful a figure, so womanly a presence, and so beautiful a face. Shewas a blonde, golden-haired, blue-eyed, and would no doubt have hadthe perfect complexion which goes with such colouring, had not herrecent experience left her drawn and haggard. Her sufferings werephysical as well as mental, for over one eye rose a hideous,plum-coloured swelling, which her maid, a tall, austere woman, wasbathing assiduously with vinegar and water. The lady lay backexhausted upon a couch, but her quick, observant gaze, as we enteredthe room, and the alert expression of her beautiful features, showedthat neither her wits nor her courage had been shaken by herterrible experience. She was enveloped in a loose dressing-gown ofblue and silver, but a black sequin-covered dinner-dress lay uponthe couch beside her.

　　"I have told you all that happened, Mr. Hopkins," she said, wearily."Could you not repeat it for me? Well, if you think it necessary, Iwill tell these gentlemen what occurred. Have they been in thedining-room yet?"

　　"I thought they had better hear your ladyship's story first.""I shall be glad when you can arrange matters. It is horrible tome to think of him still lying there." She shuddered and buried herface in her hands. As she did so, the loose gown fell back from herforearms. Holmes uttered an exclamation.

　　"You have other injuries, madam! What is this?" Two vivid redspots stood out on one of the white, round limbs. She hastilycovered it.

　　"It is nothing. It has no connection with this hideous businessto-night. If you and your friend will sit down, I will tell you allI can.

　　"I am the wife of Sir Eustace Brackenstall. I have been marriedabout a year. I suppose that it is no use my attempting to concealthat our marriage has not been a happy one. I fear that all ourneighbours would tell you that, even if I were to attempt to denyit. Perhaps the fault may be partly mine. I was brought up in thefreer, less conventional atmosphere of South Australia, and thisEnglish life, with its proprieties and its primness, is notcongenial to me. But the main reason lies in the one fact, which isnotorious to everyone, and that is that Sir Eustace was a confirmeddrunkard. To be with such a man for an hour is unpleasant. Can youimagine what it means for a sensitive and high-spirited woman to betied to him for day and night? It is a sacrilege, a crime, avillainy to hold that such a marriage is binding. I say that thesemonstrous laws of yours will bring a curse upon the land- God will notlet such wickedness endure." For an instant she sat up, her cheeksflushed, and her eyes blazing from under the terrible mark upon herbrow. Then the strong, soothing hand of the austere maid drew her headdown on to the cushion, and the wild anger died away into passionatesobbing. At last she continued:

　　"I will tell you about last night. You are aware, perhaps, that inthis house all the servants sleep in the modern wing. This centralblock is made up of the dwelling-rooms, with the kitchen behind andour bedroom above. My maid, Theresa, sleeps above my room. There is noone else, and no sound could alarm those who are in the fartherwing. This must have been well known to the robbers, or they would nothave acted as they did.

　　"Sir Eustace retired about half-past ten. The servants had alreadygone to their quarters. Only my maid was up, and she had remained inher room at the top of the house until I needed her services. I satuntil after eleven in this room, absorbed in a book. Then I walkedround to see that all was right before I went upstairs. It was mycustom to do this myself, for, as I have explained, Sir Eustace wasnot always to be trusted. I went into the kitchen, the butler'spantry, the gun-room, the billiard-room, the drawing-room, and finallythe dining-room. As I approached the window, which is covered withthick curtains, I suddenly felt the wind blow upon my face andrealized that it was open. I flung the curtain aside and foundmyself face to face with a broad-shouldered elderly man, who hadjust stepped into the room. The window is a long French one, whichreally forms a door leading to the lawn. I held my bedroom candlelit in my hand, and, by its light, behind the first man I saw twoothers, who were in the act of entering. I stepped back, but thefellow was on me in an instant. He caught me first by the wrist andthen by the throat. I opened my mouth to scream, but he struck me asavage blow with his fist over the eye, and felled me to the ground. Imust have been unconscious for a few minutes, for when I came tomyself, I found that they had torn down the bell-rope, and had securedme tightly to the oaken chair which stands at the head of thedining-table. I was so firmly bound that I could not move, and ahandkerchief round my mouth prevented me from uttering a sound. It wasat this instant that my unfortunate husband entered the room. He hadevidently heard some suspicious sounds, and he came prepared forsuch a scene as he found. He was dressed in nightshirt and trousers,with his favourite blackthorn cudgel in his hand. He rushed at theburglars, but another- it was an elderly man- stooped, picked thepoker out of the grate and struck him a horrible blow as he passed. Hefell with a groan and never moved again. I fainted once more, butagain it could only have been for a very few minutes during which Iwas insensible. When I opened my eyes I found that they hadcollected the silver from the sideboard, and they had drawn a bottleof wine which stood there. Each of them had a glass in his hand. Ihave already told you, have I not, that one was elderly, with a beard,and the others young, hairless lads. They might have been a fatherwith his two sons. They talked together in whispers. Then they cameover and made sure that I was securely bound. Finally they withdrew,closing the window after them. It was quite a quarter of an hourbefore I got my mouth free. When I did so, my screams brought the maidto my assistance. The other servants were soon alarmed, and we sentfor the local police, who instantly communicated with London. Thatis really all that I can tell you, gentlemen, and I trust that it willnot be necessary for me to go over so painful a story again.""Any questions, Mr. Holmes?" asked Hopkins.

　　"I will not impose any further tax upon Lady Brackenstall's patienceand time," said Holmes. "Before I go into the dining-room, I shouldlike to hear your experience." He looked at the maid.

　　"I saw the men before ever they came into the house," said she."As I sat by my bedroom window I saw three men in the moonlight downby the lodge gate yonder, but I thought nothing of it at the time.It was more than an hour after that I heard my mistress scream, anddown I ran, to find her, poor lamb, just as she says, and him on thefloor, with his blood and brains over the room. It was enough to drivea woman out of her wits, tied there, and her very dress spotted withhim, but she never wanted courage, did Miss Mary Fraser of Adelaideand Lady Brackenstall of Abbey Grange hasn't learned new ways.You've questioned her long enough, you gentlemen, and now she iscoming to her own room, just with her old Theresa, to get the restthat she badly needs."

　　With a motherly tenderness the gaunt woman put her arm round hermistress and led her from the room.

　　"She has been with her all her life," said Hopkins. "Nursed her as ababy, and came with her to England when they first left Australia,eighteen months ago. Theresa Wright is her name, and the kind ofmaid you don't pick up nowadays. This way, Mr. Holmes, if you please!"The keen interest had passed out of Holmes's expressive face, andI knew that with the mystery all the charm of the case had departed.There still remained an arrest to be effected, but what were thesecommonplace rogues that he should soil his hands with them? Anabstruse and learned specialist who finds that he has been called infor a case of measles would experience something of the annoyancewhich I read in my friend's eyes. Yet the scene in the dining-roomof the Abbey Grange was sufficiently strange to arrest his attentionand to recall his waning interest.

　　It was a very large and high chamber, with carved oak ceiling, oakenpanelling, and a fine array of deer's heads and ancient weapons aroundthe walls. At the further end from the door was the high French windowof which we had heard. Three smaller windows on the right-hand sidefilled the apartment with cold winter sunshine. On the left was alarge, deep fireplace, with a massive, overhanging oak mantelpiece.Beside the fireplace was a heavy oaken chair with arms and crossbarsat the bottom. In and out through the open woodwork was woven acrimson cord, which was secured at each side to the crosspiecebelow. In releasing the lady, the cord had been slipped off her, butthe knots with which it had been secured still remained. These detailsonly struck our attention afterwards, for our thoughts were entirelyabsorbed by the terrible object which lay upon the tigerskin hearthrugin front of the fire.

　　It was the body of a tall, well-made man, about forty years ofage. He lay upon his back, his face upturned, with his white teethgrinning through his short, black beard. His two clenched hands wereraised above his head, and a heavy, blackthorn stick lay acrossthem. His dark, handsome, aquiline features were convulsed into aspasm of vindictive hatred, which had set his dead face in aterribly fiendish expression. He had evidently been in his bed whenthe alarm had broken out, for he wore a foppish, embroiderednightshirt, and his bare feet projected from his trousers. His headwas horribly injured, and the whole room bore witness to the savageferocity of the blow which had struck him down. Beside him lay theheavy poker, bent into a curve by the concussion. Holmes examined bothit and the indescribable wreck which it had wrought.

　　"He must be a powerful man, this elder Randall," he remarked."Yes," said Hopkins. "I have some record of the fellow, and he isa rough customer."

　　"You should have no difficulty in getting him."

　　"Not the slightest. We have been on the look-out for him, andthere was some idea that he had got away to America. Now that weknow that the gang are here, I don't see how they can escape. Wehave the news at every seaport already, and a reward will be offeredbefore evening. What beats me is how they could have done so mad athing, knowing that the lady could describe them and that we could notfail to recognize the description."

　　"Exactly. One would have expected that they would silence LadyBrackenstall as well."

　　"They may not have realized," I suggested, "that she had recoveredfrom her faint."

　　"That is likely enough. If she seemed to be senseless, they wouldnot take her life. What about this poor fellow, Hopkins? I seem tohave heard some queer stories about him."

　　"He was a good-hearted man when he was sober, but a perfect fiendwhen he was drunk, or rather when he was half drunk, for he seldomreally went the whole way. The devil seemed to be in him at suchtimes, and he was capable of anything. From what I hear, in spite ofall his wealth and his title, he very nearly came our way once ortwice. There was a scandal about his drenching a dog with petroleumand setting it on fire- her ladyship's dog, to make the matterworse- and that was only hushed up with difficulty. Then he threw adecanter at that maid, Theresa Wright- there was trouble about that.On the whole, and between ourselves, it will be a brighter housewithout him. What are you looking at now?"

　　Holmes was down on his knees, examining with great attention theknots upon the red cord with which the lady had been secured. Thenhe carefully scrutinized the broken and frayed end where it hadsnapped off when the burglar had dragged it down.

　　"When this was pulled down, the bell in the kitchen must have rungloudly," he remarked.

　　"No one could hear it. The kitchen stands right at the back of thehouse."

　　"How did the burglar know no one would hear it? How dared he pull ata bellrope in that reckless fashion?"

　　"Exactly, Mr. Holmes, exactly. You put the very question which Ihave asked myself again and again. There can be no doubt that thisfellow must have known the house and its habits. He must haveperfectly understood that the servants would all be in bed at thatcomparatively early hour, and that no one could possibly hear a bellring in the kitchen. Therefore, he must have been in close league withone of the servants. Surely that is evident. But there are eightservants, and all of good character."

　　"Other things being equal," said Holmes, "one would suspect theone at whose head the master threw a decanter. And yet that wouldinvolve treachery towards the mistress to whom this woman seemsdevoted. Well, well, the point is a minor one, and when you haveRandall you will probably find no difficulty in securing hisaccomplice. The lady's story certainly seems to be corroborated, if itneeded corroboration, by every detail which we see before us." Hewalked to the French window and threw it open. "There are no signshere, but the ground is iron hard, and one would not expect them. Isee that these candles in the mantelpiece have been lighted.""Yes, it was by their light and that of the lady's bedroom candle,that the burglars saw their way about."

　　"And what did they take?"

　　"Well, they did not take much- only half a dozen articles of plateoff the sideboard. Lady Brackenstall thinks that they werethemselves so disturbed by the death of Sir Eustace that they didnot ransack the house, as they would otherwise have done.""No doubt that is true, and yet they drank some wine, I understand.""To steady their nerves."

　　"Exactly. These three glasses upon the sideboard have beenuntouched, I suppose?"

　　"Yes, and the bottle stands as they left it."

　　"Let us look at it. Halloa, halloa! What is this?"

　　The three glasses were grouped together, all of them tinged withwine, and one of them containing some dregs of beeswing. The bottlestood near them, two-thirds full, and beside it lay a long, deeplystained cork. Its appearance and the dust upon the bottle showedthat it was no common vintage which the murderers had enjoyed.A change had come over Holmes's manner. He had lost his listlessexpression, and again I saw an alert light of interest in his keen,deep-set eyes. He raised the cork and examined it minutely."How did they draw it?" he asked.

　　Hopkins pointed to a half-opened drawer. In it lay some tablelinen and a large corkscrew.

　　"Did Lady Brackenstall say that screw was used?"

　　"No, you remember that she was senseless at the moment when thebottle was opened."

　　"Quite so. As a matter of fact, that screw was not used. This bottlewas opened by a pocket screw, probably contained in a knife, and notmore than an inch and a half long. If you will examine the top ofthe cork, you will observe that the screw was driven in three timesbefore the cork was extracted. It has never been transfixed. This longscrew would have transfixed it and drawn it up with a single pull.When you catch this fellow, you will find that he has one of thesemultiplex knives in his possession."

　　"Excellent!" said Hopkins.

　　"But these glasses do puzzle me, I confess. Lady Brackenstallactually saw the three men drinking, did she not?"

　　"Yes; she was clear about that."

　　"Then there is an end of it. What more is to be said? And yet, youmust admit, that the three glasses are very remarkable, Hopkins. What?You see nothing remarkable? Well, well, let it pass. Perhaps, when aman has special knowledge and special powers like my own, it ratherencourages him to seek a complex explanation when a simpler one isat hand. Of course, it must be a mere chance about the glasses.Well, good-morning, Hopkins. I don't see that I can be of any use toyou, and you appear to have your case very clear. You will let me knowwhen Randall is arrested, and any further developments which mayoccur. I trust that I shall soon have to congratulate you upon asuccessful conclusion. Come, Watson, I fancy that we may employourselves more profitably at home."

　　During our return journey, I could see by Holmes's face that hewas much puzzled by something which he had observed. Every now andthen, by an effort, he would throw off the impression, and talk asif the matter were clear, but then his doubts would settle down uponhim again, and his knitted brows and abstracted eyes would show thathis thoughts had gone back once more to the great diningroom of theAbbey Grange, in which this midnight tragedy had been enacted. Atlast, by a sudden impulse, just as our train was crawling out of asuburban station, he sprang on to the platform and pulled me out afterhim.

　　"Excuse me, my dear fellow," said he, as we watched the rearcarriages of our train disappearing round a curve, "I am sorry to makeyou the victim of what may seem a mere whim, but on my life, Watson, Isimply can't leave that case in this condition. Every instinct thatI possess cries out against it. It's wrong- it's all wrong- I'll swearthat it's wrong. And yet the lady's story was complete, the maid'scorroboration was sufficient, the detail was fairly exact. What have Ito put up against that? Three wine-glasses, that is all. But if Ihad not taken things for granted, if I had examined everything withcare which I should have shown had we approached the case de novoand had no cut-and-dried story to warp my mind, should I not then havefound something more definite to go upon? Of course I should. Sit downon this bench, Watson, until a train for Chiselhurst arrives, andallow me to lay the evidence before you, imploring you in the firstinstance to dismiss from your mind the idea that anything which themaid or her mistress may have said must necessarily be true. Thelady's charming personality must not be permitted to warp ourjudgment.

　　"Surely there are details in her story which, if we looked at incold blood, would excite our suspicion. These burglars made aconsiderable haul at Sydenham a fortnight ago. Some account of themand of their appearance was in the papers, and would naturally occurto anyone who wished to invent a story in which imaginary robbersshould play a part. As a matter of fact, burglars who have done a goodstroke of business are, as a rule, only too glad to enjoy the proceedsin peace and quiet without embarking on another perilousundertaking. Again, it is unusual for burglars to operate at soearly an hour, it is unusual for burglars to strike a lady toprevent her screaming, since one would imagine that was the sure wayto make her scream, it is unusual for them to commit murder when theirnumbers are sufficient to overpower one man, it is unusual for them tobe content with a limited plunder when there was much more withintheir reach, and finally, I should say, that it was very unusual forsuch men to leave a bottle half empty. How do all these unusualsstrike you, Watson?"

　　"Their cumulative effect is certainly considerable, and yet eachof them is quite possible in itself. The most unusual thing of all, asit seems to me, is that the lady should be tied to the chair.""Well, I am not so clear about that, Watson, for it is evidentthat they must either kill her or else secure her in such a way thatshe could not give immediate notice of their escape. But at any rate Ihave shown, have I not, that there is a certain element ofimprobability about the lady's story? And now, on the top of this,comes the incident of the wineglasses."

　　"What about the wineglasses?"

　　"Can you see them in your mind's eye?"

　　"I see them clearly."

　　"We are told that three men drank from them. Does that strike you aslikely?"

　　"Why not? There was wine in each glass."

　　"Exactly, but there was beeswing only in one glass. You must havenoticed that fact. What does that suggest to your mind?""The last glass filled would be most likely to contain beeswing.""Not at all. The bottle was full of it, and it is inconceivable thatthe first two glasses were clear and the third heavily charged withit. There are two possible explanations, and only two. One is thatafter the second glass was filled the bottle was violently agitated,and so the third glass received the beeswing. That does not appearprobable. No, no, I am sure that I am right."

　　"What, then, do you suppose?"

　　"That only two glasses were used, and that the dregs of both werepoured into a third glass, so as to give the false impression thatthree people had been here. In that way all the beeswing would be inthe last glass, would it not? Yes, I am convinced that this is so. Butif I have hit upon the true explanation of this one smallphenomenon, then in an instant the case rises from the commonplaceto the exceedingly remarkable, for it can only mean that LadyBrackenstall and her maid have deliberately lied to us, that not oneword of their story is to be believed, that they have some very strongreason for covering the real criminal, and that we must constructour case for ourselves without any help from them. That is the missionwhich now lies before us, and here, Watson, is the Sydenham train."The household at the Abbey Grange were much surprised at our return,but Sherlock Holmes, finding that Stanley Hopkins had gone off toreport to headquarters, took possession of the dining-room, locked thedoor upon the inside, and devoted himself for two hours to one ofthose minute and laborious investigations which form the solid basison which his brilliant edifices of deduction were reared. Seated ina corner like an interested student who observes the demonstrationof his professor, I followed every step of that remarkable research.The window, the curtains, the carpet, the chair, the rope- each inturn was minutely examined and duly pondered. The body of theunfortunate baronet had been removed, and all else remained as wehad seen it in the morning. Finally, to my astonishment, Holmesclimbed up on to the massive mantelpiece. Far above his head hungthe few inches of red cord which were still attached to the wire.For a long time he gazed upward at it, and then in an attempt to getnearer to it he rested his knee upon a wooden bracket on the wall.This brought his hand within a few inches of the broken end of therope, but it was not this so much as the bracket itself which seemedto engage his attention. Finally, he sprang down with an ejaculationof satisfaction.

　　"It's all right, Watson," said he. "We have got our case- one of themost remarkable in our collection. But, dear me, how slow-witted Ihave been, and how nearly I have committed the blunder of my lifetime!Now, I think that, with a few missing links, my chain is almostcomplete."

　　"You have got your men?"

　　"Man, Watson, man. Only one, but a very formidable person. Strong asa lion- witness the blow that bent that poker! Six foot three inheight, active as a squirrel, dexterous with his fingers, finally,remarkably quick-witted, for this whole ingenious story is of hisconcoction. Yes, Watson, we have come upon the handiwork of a veryremarkable individual. And yet, in that bell-rope, he has given us aclue which should not have left us a doubt."

　　"Where was the clue?"

　　"Well, if you were to pull down a bell-rope, Watson, where would youexpect it to break? Surely at the spot where it is attached to thewire. Why should it break three inches from the top, as this one hasdone?"

　　"Because it is frayed there?"

　　"Exactly. This end, which we can examine, is frayed. He wascunning enough to do that with his knife. But the other end is notfrayed. You could not observe that from here, but if you were on themantelpiece you would see that it is cut clean off without any mark offraying whatever. You can reconstruct what occurred. The man neededthe rope. He would not tear it down for fear of giving the alarm byringing the bell. What did he do? He sprang up on the mantelpiece,could not quite reach it, put his knee on the bracket- you will seethe impression in the dust- and so got his knife to bear upon thecord. I could not reach the place by at least three inches- from whichI infer that he is at least three inches a bigger man than I. Lookat that mark upon the seat of the oaken chair! What is it?""Blood."

　　"Undoubtedly it is blood. This alone puts the lady's story out ofcourt. If she were seated on the chair when the crime was done, howcomes that mark? No, no, she was placed in the chair after the deathof her husband. I'll wager that the black dress shows acorresponding mark to this. We have not yet met our Waterloo,Watson, but this is our Marengo, for it begins in defeat and ends invictory. I should like now to have a few words with the nurse,Theresa. We must be wary for a while, if we are to get the informationwhich we want."

　　She was an interesting person, this stern Australian nurse-taciturn, suspicious, ungracious, it took some time before Holmes'spleasant manner and frank acceptance of all that she said thawed herinto a corresponding amiability. She did not attempt to conceal herhatred for her late employer.

　　"Yes, sir, it is true that he threw the decanter at me. I heardhim call my mistress a name, and I told him that he would not dareto speak so if her brother had been there. Then it was that he threwit at me. He might have thrown a dozen if he had but left my bonnybird alone. He was forever ill-treating her, and she too proud tocomplain. She will not even tell me all that he has done to her. Shenever told me of those marks on her arm that you saw this morning, butI know very well that they come from a stab with a hatpin. The slydevil- God forgive me that I should speak of him so, now that he isdead! But a devil he was, if ever one walked the earth. He was allhoney when first we met him- only eighteen months ago, and we bothfeel as if it were eighteen years. She had only just arrived inLondon. Yes, it was her first voyage- she had never been from homebefore. He won her with his title and his money and his false Londonways. If she made a mistake she has paid for it, if ever a womandid. What month did we meet him? Well, I tell you it was just after wearrived. We arrived in June, and it was July. They were married inJanuary of last year. Yes, she is down in the morning-room again,and I have no doubt she will see you, but you must not ask too much ofher, for she has gone through all that flesh and blood will stand."Lady Brackenstall was reclining on the same couch, but lookedbrighter than before. The maid had entered with us, and began oncemore to foment the bruise upon her mistress's brow.

　　"I hope," said the lady, "that you have not come to cross-examine meagain?"

　　"No," Holmes answered, in his gentlest voice, "I will not causeyou any unnecessary trouble, Lady Brackenstall, and my whole desire isto make things easy for you, for I am convinced that you are amuch-tried woman. If you will treat me as a friend and trust me, youmay find that I will justify your trust."

　　"What do you want me to do?"

　　"To tell me the truth."

　　"Mr. Holmes!"

　　"No, no, Lady Brackenstall- it is no use. You may have heard ofany little reputation which I possess. I will stake it all on the factthat your story is an absolute fabrication."

　　Mistress and maid were both staring at Holmes with pale faces andfrightened eyes.

　　"You are an impudent fellow!" cried Theresa. "Do you mean to saythat my mistress has told a lie?"

　　Holmes rose from his chair.

　　"Have you nothing to tell me?"

　　"I have told you everything."

　　"Think once more, Lady Brackenstall. Would it not be better to befrank?"

　　For an instant there was hesitation in her beautiful face. Then somenew strong thought caused it to set like a mask.

　　"I have told you all I know."

　　Holmes took his hat and shrugged his shoulders. "I am sorry," hesaid, and without another word we left the room and the house. Therewas a pond in the park, and to this my friend led the way. It wasfrozen over, but a single hole was left for the convenience of asolitary swan. Holmes gazed at it, and then passed on to the lodgegate. There he scribbled a short note for Stanley Hopkins, and left itwith the lodge-keeper.

　　"It may be a hit, or it may be a miss, but we are bound to dosomething for friend Hopkins, just to justify this second visit," saidhe. "I will not quite take him into my confidence yet. I think ournext scene of operations must be the shipping office of theAdelaide-Southampton line, which stands at the end of Pall Mall, ifI remember right. There is a second line of steamers which connectSouth Australia with England, but we will draw the larger coverfirst."

　　Holmes's card sent in to the manager ensured instant attention,and he was not long in acquiring all the information he needed. InJune of '95, only one of their line had reached a home port. It wasthe Rock of Gibraltar, their largest and best boat. A reference to thepassenger list showed that Miss Fraser, of Adelaide, with her maid hadmade the voyage in her. The boat was now somewhere south of the SuezCanal on her way to Australia. Her officers were the same as in '95,with one exception. The first officer, Mr. Jack Crocker, had been madea captain and was to take charge of their new ship, the Bass Rock,sailing in two days' time from Southampton. He lived at Sydenham,but he was likely to be in that morning for instructions, if wecared to wait for him.

　　No, Mr. Holmes had no desire to see him, but would be glad to knowmore about his record and character.

　　His record was magnificent. There was not an officer in the fleet totouch him. As to his character, he was reliable on duty, but a wild,desperate fellow off the deck of his ship- hot-headed, excitable,but loyal, honest, and kind-hearted. That was the pith of theinformation with which Holmes left the office of the

　　Adelaide-Southampton company. Thence he drove to Scotland Yard, but,instead of entering, he sat in his cab with his brows drawn down, lostin profound thought. Finally he drove round to the Charing Crosstelegraph office, sent off a message, and then, at last, we made forBaker Street once more.

　　"No, I couldn't do it, Watson," said he, as we reentered our room."Once that warrant was made out, nothing on earth would save him. Onceor twice in my career I feel that I have done more real harm by mydiscovery of the criminal than ever he had done by his crime. I havelearned caution now, and I had rather play tricks with the law ofEngland than with my own conscience. Let us know a little morebefore we act."

　　Before evening, we had a visit from Inspector Stanley Hopkins.Things were not going very well with him.

　　"I believe that you are a wizard, Mr. Holmes. I really dosometimes think that you have powers that are not human. Now, how onearth could you know that the stolen silver was at the bottom ofthat pond?"

　　"I didn't know it."

　　"But you told me to examine it."

　　"You got it, then?"

　　"Yes, I got it."

　　"I am very glad if I have helped you."

　　"But you haven't helped me. You have made the affair far moredifficult. What sort of burglars are they who steal silver and thenthrow it into the nearest pond?"

　　"It was certainly rather eccentric behaviour. I was merely goingon the idea that if the silver had been taken by persons who did notwant it- who merely took it for a blind, as it were- then they wouldnaturally be anxious to get rid of it."

　　"But why should such an idea cross your mind?"

　　"Well, I thought it was possible. When they came out through theFrench window, there was the pond with one tempting little hole in theice, right in front of their noses. Could there be a betterhiding-place?"

　　"Ah, a hiding-place- that is better!" cried Stanley Hopkins. "Yes,yes, I see it all now! It was early, there were folk upon the roads,they were afraid of being seen with the silver, so they sank it in thepond, intending to return for it when the coast was clear.Excellent, Mr. Holmes- that is better than your idea of a blind.""Quite so, you have got an admirable theory. I have no doubt that myown ideas were quite wild, but you must admit that they have endedin discovering the silver."

　　"Yes, sir- yes. It was all your doing. But I have had a badsetback."

　　"A setback?"

　　"Yes, Mr. Holmes. The Randall gang were arrested in New York thismorning."

　　"Dear me, Hopkins! That is certainly rather against your theory thatthey committed a murder in Kent last night."

　　"It is fatal, Mr. Holmes- absolutely fatal. Still, there are othergangs of three besides the Randalls, or it may be some new gang ofwhich the police have never heard."

　　"Quite so, it is perfectly possible. What, are you off?"Yes, Mr. Holmes, there is no rest for me until I have got to thebottom of the business. I suppose you have no hint to give me?""I have given you one."

　　"Which?"

　　"Well, I suggested a blind."

　　"But why, Mr. Holmes, why?"

　　"Ah, that's the question, of course. But I commend the idea toyour mind. You might possibly find that there was something in it. Youwon't stop for dinner? Well, good-bye, and let us know how you geton."

　　Dinner was over, and the table cleared before Holmes alluded tothe matter again. He had lit his pipe and held his slippered feet tothe cheerful blaze of the fire. Suddenly he looked at his watch."I expect developments, Watson."

　　"When?"

　　"Now- within a few minutes. I dare say you thought I acted ratherbadly to Stanley Hopkins just now?"

　　"I trust your judgment."

　　"A very sensible reply, Watson. You must look at it this way: what Iknow is unofficial, what he knows is official. I have the right toprivate judgment, but he has none. He must disclose all, or he is atraitor to his service. In a doubtful case I would not put him in sopainful a position, and so I reserve my information until my ownmind is clear upon the matter."

　　"But when will that be?"

　　"The time has come. You will now be present at the last scene of aremarkable little drama."

　　There was a sound upon the stairs, and our door was opened toadmit as fine a specimen of manhood as ever passed through it. Hewas a very tall young man, golden-moustached, blue-eyed, with a skinwhich had been burned by tropical suns, and a springy step, whichshowed that the huge frame was as active as it was strong. He closedthe door behind him, and then he stood with clenched hands and heavingbreast, choking down some overmastering emotion.

　　"Sit down, Captain Crocker. You got my telegram?"

　　Our visitor sank into an armchair and looked from one to the otherof us with questioning eyes.

　　"I got your telegram, and I came at the hour you said. I heardthat you had been down to the office. There was no getting away fromyou. Let's hear the worst. What are you going to do with me? Arrestme? Speak out, man! You can't sit there and play with me like a catwith a mouse."

　　"Give him a cigar," said Holmes. "Bite on that, Captain Crocker, anddon't let your nerves run away with you. I should not sit here smokingwith you if I thought that you were a common criminal, you may be sureof that. Be frank with me and we may do some good. Play tricks withme, and I'll crush you."

　　"What do you wish me to do?"

　　"To give me a true account of all that happened at the AbbeyGrange last night- a true account, mind you, with nothing added andnothing taken off. I know so much already that if you go one inchoff the straight, I'll blow this police whistle from my window and theaffair goes out of my hands forever."

　　The sailor thought for a little. Then he struck his leg with hisgreat sunburned hand.

　　"I'll chance it," he cried. "I believe you are a man of your word,and a white man, and I'll tell you the whole story. But one thing Iwill say first. So far as I am concerned, I regret nothing and Ifear nothing, and I would do it all again and be proud of the job.Damn the beast, if he had as many lives as a cat, he would owe themall to me! But it's the lady, Mary- Mary Fraser- for never will I callher by that accursed name. When I think of getting her into trouble, Iwho would give my life just to bring one smile to her dear face,it's that that turns my soul into water. And yet- and yet- what lesscould I do? I'll tell you my story, gentlemen, and then I'll ask you, asman to man, what less could I do?

　　"I must go back a bit. You seem to know everything, so I expect thatyou know that I met her when she was a passenger and I was firstofficer of the Rock of Gibraltar. From the first day I met her, shewas the only woman to me. Every day of that voyage I loved her more,and many a time since have I kneeled down in the darkness of the nightwatch and kissed the deck of that ship because I knew her dear feethad trod it. She was never engaged to me. She treated me as fairlyas ever a woman treated a man. I have no complaint to make. It was alllove on my side, and all good comradeship and friendship on hers. Whenwe parted she was a free woman, but I could never again be a free man."Next time I came back from sea, I heard of her marriage. Well,why shouldn't she marry whom she liked? Title and money- who couldcarry them better than she? She was born for all that is beautiful anddainty. I didn't grieve over her marriage. I was not such a selfishhound as that. I just rejoiced that good luck had come her way, andthat she had not thrown herself away on a penniless sailor. That's howI loved Mary Fraser.

　　"Well, I never thought to see her again, but last voyage I waspromoted, and the new boat was not yet launched, so I had to waitfor a couple of months with my people at Sydenham. One day out in acountry lane I met Theresa Wright, her old maid. She told me all abouther, about him, about everything. I tell you, gentlemen, it nearlydrove me mad. This drunken hound, that he should dare to raise hishand to her, whose boots he was not worthy to lick! I met Theresaagain. Then I met Mary herself- and met her again. Then she would meetme no more. But the other day I had a notice that I was to start on myvoyage within a week, and I determined that I would see her oncebefore I left. Theresa was always my friend, for she loved Mary andhated this villain almost as much as I did. From her I learned theways of the house. Mary used to sit up reading in her own littleroom downstairs. I crept round there last night and scratched at thewindow. At first she would not open to me, but in her heart I knowthat now she loves me, and she could not leave me in the frosty night.She whispered to me to come round to the big front window, and I foundit open before me, so as to let me into the dining-room. Again I heardfrom her own lips things that made my blood boil, and again I cursedthis brute who mishandled the woman I loved. Well, gentlemen, I wasstanding with her just inside the window, in all innocence, as Godis my judge, when he rushed like a madman into the room, called herthe vilest name that a man could use to a woman, and welted her acrossthe face with the stick he had in his hand. I had sprung for thepoker, and it was a fair fight between us. See here, on my arm,where his first blow fell. Then it was my turn, and I went through himas if he had been a rotten pumpkin. Do you think I was sorry? Not IfIt was his life or mine, but far more than that, it was his life orhers, for how could I leave her in the power of this madman? Thatwas how I killed him. Was I wrong? Well, then, what would either ofyou gentlemen have done, if you had been in my position?""She had screamed when he struck her, and that brought old Theresadown from the room above. There was a bottle of wine on the sideboard,and I opened it and poured a little between Mary's lips, for she washalf dead with shock. Then I took a drop myself. Theresa was as coolas ice, and it was her plot as much as mine. We must make it appearthat burglars had done the thing. Theresa kept on repeating ourstory to her mistress, while I swarmed up and cut the rope of thebell. Then I lashed her in her chair, and frayed out the end of therope to make it look natural, else they would wonder how in theworld a burglar could have got up there to cut it. Then I gatheredup a few plates and pots of silver, to carry out the idea of therobbery, and there I left them, with orders to give the alarm when Ihad a quarter of an hour's start. I dropped the silver into thepond, and made off for Sydenham, feeling that for once in my life Ihad done a real good night's work. And that's the truth and thewhole truth, Mr. Holmes, if it costs me my neck."

　　Holmes smoked for some time in silence. Then he crossed the room,and shook our visitor by the hand.

　　"That's what I think," said he. "I know that every word is true, foryou have hardly said a word which I did not know. No one but anacrobat or a sailor could have got up to that bell-rope from thebracket, and no one but a sailor could have made the knots withwhich the cord was fastened to the chair. Only once had this lady beenbrought into contact with sailors, and that was on her voyage, andit was someone of her own class of life, since she was trying hardto shield him, and so showing that she loved him. You see how easyit was for me to lay my hands upon you when once I had started uponthe right trail."

　　"I thought the police never could have seen through our dodge.""And the police haven't, nor will they, to the best of my belief.Now, look here, Captain Crocker, this is a very serious matter, thoughI am willing to admit that you acted under the most extremeprovocation to which any man could be subjected. I am not sure that indefence of your own life your action will not be pronouncedlegitimate. However, that is for a British jury to decide. Meanwhile Ihave so much sympathy for you that, if you choose to disappear inthe next twenty-four hours, I will promise you that no one will hinderyou."

　　"And then it will all come out?"

　　"Certainly it will come out."

　　The sailor flushed with anger.

　　"What sort of proposal is that to make a man? I know enough of lawto understand that Mary would be held as accomplice. Do you think Iwould leave her alone to face the music while I slunk away? No, sir,let them do their worst upon me, but for heaven's sake, Mr. Holmes,find some way of keeping my poor Mary out of the courts."Holmes for a second time held out his hand to the sailor."I was only testing you, and you ring true every time. Well, it is agreat responsibility that I take upon myself, but I have given Hopkinsan excellent hint and if he can't avail himself of it I can do nomore. See here, Captain Crocker, we'll do this in due form of law. Youare the prisoner. Watson, you are a British jury, and I never met aman who was more eminently fitted to represent one. I am the judge.Now, gentleman of the jury, you have heard the evidence. Do you findthe prisoner guilty or not guilty?"

　　"Not guilty, my lord," said I.

　　"Vox populi, vox dei. You are acquitted, Captain Crocker. So long asthe law does not find some other victim you are safe from me. Comeback to this lady in a year, and may her future and yours justify usin the judgment which we have pronounced this night!"

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1892

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE BERYL CORONET

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　The Adventure of the Beryl Coronet.

　　"Holmes," said I as I stood one morning in our bow-window lookingdown the street, "here is a madman coming along. It seems rather sadthat his relatives should allow him to come out alone."My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his handsin the pockets of his dressing-gown, looking over my shoulder. Itwas a bright, crisp February morning, and the snow of the day beforestill lay deep upon the ground, shimmering brightly in the wintry sun.Down the centre of Baker Street it had been ploughed into a browncrumbly band by the traffic, but at either side and on the heaped-upedges of the foot-paths it still lay as white as when it fell. Thegray pavement had been cleaned and scraped, but was stilldangerously slippery, so that there were fewer passengers thanusual. Indeed, from the direction of the Metropolitan Station no onewas coming save the single gentleman whose eccentric conduct had drawnmy attention.

　　He was a man of about fifty, tall, portly, and imposing, with amassive, strongly marked face and a commanding figure. He wasdressed in a sombre yet rich style, in black frock-coat, shininghat, neat brown gaiters, and well-cut pearl-gray trousers. Yet hisactions were in absurd contrast to the dignity of his dress andfeatures, for he was running hard, with occasional little springs,such as a weary man gives who is little accustomed to set any tax uponhis legs. As he ran he jerked his hands up and down, waggled his head,and writhed his face into the most extraordinary contortions."What on earth can be the matter with him?" I asked. "He islooking up at the numbers of the houses."

　　"I believe that he is coming here," said Holmes, rubbing his hands."Here?"

　　"Yes; I rather think he is coming to consult me professionally. Ithink that I recognize the symptoms. Ha! did I not tell you?" As hespoke, the man, puffing and blowing, rushed at our door and pulledat our bell until the whole house resounded with the clanging.A few moments later he was in our room, still puffing, stillgesticulating, but with so fixed a look of grief and despair in hiseyes that our smiles were turned in an instant to horror and pity. Fora while he could not get his words out, but swayed his body andplucked at his hair like one who has been driven to the extreme limitsof his reason. Then, suddenly springing to his feet, he beat hishead against the wall with such force that we both rushed upon him andtore him away to the centre of the room. Sherlock Holmes pushed himdown into the easy-chair and, sitting beside him, patted his handand chatted with him in the easy, soothing tones which he knew so wellhow to employ.

　　"You have come to me to tell your story, have you not?" said he."You are fatigued with your haste. Pray wait until you haverecovered yourself, and then I shall be most happy to look into anylittle problem which you may submit to me."

　　The man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest, fightingagainst his emotion. Then he passed his handkerchief over his brow,set his lips tight, and turned his face towards us.

　　"No doubt you think me mad?" said he.

　　"I see that you have had some great trouble," responded Holmes."God knows I have!-a trouble which is enough to unseat my reason, sosudden and so terrible is it. Public disgrace I might have faced,although I am a man whose character has never yet borne a stain.Private affliction also is the lot of every man; but the two comingtogether, and in so frightful a form, have been enough to shake myvery soul. Besides, it is not I alone. The very noblest in the landmay suffer unless some way be found out of this horrible affair.""Pray compose yourself, sir," said Holmes, "and let me have aclear account of who you are and what it is that has befallen you.""My name," answered our visitor, "is probably familiar to your ears.I am Alexander Holder, of the banking firm of Holder & Stevenson, ofThreadneedle Street."

　　The name was indeed well known to us as belonging to the seniorpartner in the second largest private banking concern in the City ofLondon. What could have happened, then, to bring one of the foremostcitizens of London to this most pitiable pass? We waited, allcuriosity, until with another effort he braced himself to tell hisstory.

　　"I feel that time is of value," said he; "that is why I hastenedhere when the police inspector suggested that I should secure yourcooperation. I came to Baker Street by the Underground and hurriedfrom there on foot, for the cabs go slowly through this snow. Thatis why I was so out of breath, for I am a man who takes very littleexercise. I feel better now, and I will put the facts before you asshortly and yet as clearly as I can.

　　"It is, of course, well known to you that in a successful bankingbusiness as much depends upon our being able to find remunerativeinvestments for our funds as upon our increasing our connection andthe number of our depositors. One of our most lucrative means oflaying out money is in the shape of loans, where the security isunimpeachable. We have done a good deal in this direction during thelast few years, and there are many noble families to whom we haveadvanced large sums upon the security of their pictures, libraries, orplate.

　　"Yesterday morning I was seated in my office at the bank when a cardwas brought in to me by one of the clerks. I started when I saw thename, for it was that of none other than-well, perhaps even to you Ihad better say no more than that it was a name which is a householdword all over the earth-one of the highest, noblest, most exaltednames in England. I was overwhelmed by the honour and attempted,when he entered, to say so, but he plunged at once into businesswith the air of a man who wishes to hurry quickly through adisagreeable task.

　　"'Mr. Holder,' said he, 'I have been informed that you are in thehabit of advancing money.'

　　"'The firm does so when the security is good,' I answered."'It is absolutely essential to me,' said he, 'that I should haveL50,000 at once. I could, of course, borrow so trifling a sum tentimes over from my friends, but I much prefer to make it a matter ofbusiness and to carry out that business myself. In my position you canreadily understand that it is unwise to place one's self underobligations.'

　　"'For how long, may I ask, do you want this sum?' I asked."'Next Monday I have a large sum due to me, and I shall then mostcertainly repay what you advance, with whatever interest you thinkit right to charge. But it is very essential to me that the moneyshould be paid at once.'

　　"'I should be happy to advance it without further parley from my ownprivate purse,' said I, 'were it not that the strain would be rathermore than it could bear. If, on the other hand, I am to do it in thename of the firm, then in justice to my partner I must insist thateven in your case, every businesslike precaution should be taken.'"'I should much prefer to have it so,' said he, raising up a square,black morocco case which he had laid beside his chair. 'You havedoubtless heard of the Beryl Coronet?'

　　"'One of the most precious public possessions of the empire,' saidI.

　　"'Precisely.' He opened the case, and there, imbedded in soft,flesh-coloured velvet, lay the magnificent piece of jewellery which hehad named. 'There are thirty-nine enormous beryls,' said he, 'andthe price of the gold chasing is incalculable. The lowest estimatewould put the worth of the coronet at double the sum which I haveasked. I am prepared to leave it with you as my security.'"I took the precious case into my hands and looked in someperplexity from it to my illustrious client.

　　"'You doubt its value?' he asked.

　　"'Not at all. I only doubt-'

　　"'The propriety of my leaving it. You may set your mind at restabout that. I should not dream of doing so were it not absolutelycertain that I should be able in four days to reclaim it. It is a purematter of form. Is the security sufficient?'

　　"'Ample.'

　　"'You understand, Mr. Holder, that I am giving you a strong proof ofthe confidence which I have in you, founded upon all that I have heardof you. I rely upon you not only to be discreet and to refrain fromall gossip upon the matter but, above all, to preserve this coronetwith every possible precaution because I need not say that a greatpublic scandal would be caused if any harm were to befall it. Anyinjury to it would be almost as serious as its complete loss, forthere are no beryls in the world to match these, and it would beimpossible to replace them. I leave it with you, however, with everyconfidence, and I shall call for it in person on Monday morning.'"Seeing that my client was anxious to leave, I said no more; but,calling for my cashier, I ordered him to pay over fifty L1000 notes.When I was alone once more, however, with the precious case lying uponthe table in front of me, I could not but think with some misgivingsof the immense responsibility which it entailed upon me. There couldbe no doubt that, as it was a national possession, a horriblescandal would ensue if any misfortune should occur to it. I alreadyregretted having ever consented to take charge of it. However, itwas too late to alter the matter now, so I locked it up in myprivate safe and turned once more to my work.

　　"When evening came I felt that it would be an imprudence to leave soprecious a thing in the office behind me. Bankers' safes had beenforced before now, and why should not mine be? If so, how terriblewould be the position in which I should find myself! I determined,therefore, that for the next few days I would always carry the casebackward and forward with me, so that it might never be really outof my reach. With this intention, I called a cab and drove out to myhouse at Streatham, carrying the jewel with me. I did not breathefreely until I had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau of mydressing-room.

　　"And now a word as to my household, Mr. Holmes, for I wish you tothoroughly understand the situation. My groom and my page sleep out ofthe house, and may be set aside altogether. I have three maid-servantswho have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliabilityis quite above suspicion. Another, Lucy Parr, the second waiting-maid,has only been in my service a few months. She came with an excellentcharacter, however, and has always given me satisfaction. She is avery pretty girl and has attracted admirers who have occasionally hungabout the place. That is the only drawback which we have found to her,but we believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every way."So much for the servants. My family itself is so small that it willnot take me long to describe it. I am a widower and have an onlyson, Arthur. He has been a disappointment to me, Mr. Holmes-a grievousdisappointment. I have no doubt that I am myself to blame. People tellme that I have spoiled him. Very likely I have. When my dear wife diedI felt that he was all I had to love. I could not bear to see thesmile fade even for a moment from his face. I have never denied hima wish. Perhaps it would have been better for both of us had I beensterner, but I meant it for the best.

　　"It was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in mybusiness, but he was not of a business turn. He was wild, wayward,and, to speak the truth, I could not trust him in the handling oflarge sums of money. When he was young he became a member of anaristocratic club, and there, having charming manners, he was soon theintimate of a number of men with long purses and expensive habits.He learned to play heavily at cards and to squander money on the turf,until he had again and again to come to me and implore me to givehim an advance upon his allowance, that he might settle his debts ofhonour. He tried more than once to break away from the dangerouscompany which he was keeping, but each time the influence of hisfriend, Sir George Burnwell, was enough to draw him back again."And, indeed, I could not wonder that such a man as Sir GeorgeBurnwell should gain an influence over him, for he has frequentlybrought him to my house, and I have found myself that I could hardlyresist the fascination of his manner. He is older than Arthur, a manof the world to his finger-tips, one who had been everywhere, seeneverything, a brilliant talker, and a man of great personal beauty.Yet when I think of him in cold blood, far away from the glamour ofhis presence, I am convinced from his cynical speech and the lookwhich I have caught in his eyes that he is one who should be deeplydistrusted. So I think, and so, too, thinks my little Mary, who hasa woman's quick insight into character.

　　"And now there is only she to be described. She is my niece; butwhen my brother died five years ago and left her alone in the worldI adopted her, and have looked upon her ever since as my daughter. Sheis a sunbeam in my house sweet, loving, beautiful, a wonderful managerand housekeeper, yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman couldbe. She is my right hand. I do not know what I could do without her.In only one matter has she ever gone against my wishes. Twice my boyhas asked her to marry him, for he loves her devotedly, but eachtime she has refused him. I think that if anyone could have drawnhim into the right path it would have been she, and that hismarriage might have changed his whole life; but now, alas! it is toolate-forever too late!

　　"Now, Mr. Holmes, you know the people who live under my roof, andI shall continue with my miserable story.

　　"When we were taking coffee in the drawing-room that night afterdinner, I told Arthur and Mary my experience, and of the precioustreasure which we had under our roof, suppressing only the name ofmy client. Lucy Parr, who had brought in the coffee, had, I am sure,left the room; but I cannot swear that the door was closed. Mary andArthur were much interested and wished to see the famous coronet,but I thought it better not to disturb it.

　　"'Where have you put it?' asked Arthur.

　　"'In my own bureau.'

　　"'Well, I hope to goodness the house won't be burgled during thenight,' said he.

　　"'It is locked up,' I answered.

　　"'Oh, any old key will fit that bureau. When I was a youngster Ihave opened it myself with the key of the box-room cupboard.'"He often had a wild way of talking, so that I thought little ofwhat he said. He followed me to my room, however, that night with avery grave face.

　　"'Look here, dad,' said he with his eyes cast down, 'can you letme have L200?'

　　"'No, I cannot!' I answered sharply. 'I have been far too generouswith you in money matters.'

　　"'You have been very kind,' said he, 'but I must have this money, orelse I can never show my face inside the club again.'

　　"'And a very good thing, too!' I cried.

　　"'Yes, but you would not have me leave it a dishonoured man,' saidhe. 'I could not bear the disgrace. I must raise the money in someway, and if you will not let me have it, then I must try other means.'"I was very angry, for this was the third demand during the month.'You shall not have a farthing from me,' cried, on which he bowedand left the room without another word.

　　"When he was gone I unlocked my bureau, made sure that my treasurewas safe, and locked it again. Then I started to go round the house tosee that all was secure-a duty which I usually leave to Mary but whichI thought it well to perform myself that night. As I came down thestairs I saw Mary herself at the side window of the hail, which sheclosed and fastened as I approached.

　　"'Tell me, dad,' said she, looking, I thought, a little disturbed,'did you give Lucy, the maid, leave to go out to-night?'"'Certainly not.'

　　"'She came in just now by the back door. I have no doubt that shehas only been to the side gate to see someone, but I think that itis hardly safe and should be stopped.'

　　"'You must speak to her in the morning, or I will if you preferit. Are you sure that everything is fastened?'

　　"'Quite sure, dad.'

　　"'Then, good-night.' I kissed her and went up to my bedroom again,where I was soon asleep.

　　"I am endeavouring to tell you everything, Mr. Holmes, which mayhave any bearing upon the case, but I beg that you will question meupon any point which I do not make clear."

　　"On the contrary, your statement is singularly lucid."

　　"I come to a part of my story now in which I should wish to beparticularly so. I am not a very heavy sleeper, and the anxiety inmy mind tended, no doubt, to make me even less so than usual. Abouttwo in the morning, then, I was awakened by some sound in the house.It had ceased ere I was wide awake, but it had left an impressionbehind it as though a window had gently closed somewhere. I laylistening with all my ears. Suddenly, to my horror, there was adistinct sound of footsteps moving softly in the next room. Islipped out of bed, an palpitating with fear, and peeped round thecorner of my dressing-room door.

　　"'Arthur' I screamed, 'you villain! you thief! How dare you touchthat coronet?'

　　"The gas was half up, as I had left it, and my unhappy boy,dressed only in his shirt and trousers, was standing beside the light,holding the coronet in his hands. He appeared to be wrenching at it,or bending it with all his strength. At my cry he dropped it fromhis grasp and turned as pale as death. I snatched it up and examinedit. One of the gold corners, with three of the beryls in it, wasmissing.

　　"'You blackguard!' I shouted, beside myself with rage. 'You havedestroyed it! You have dishonoured me forever! Where are the jewelswhich you have stolen?'

　　"'Stolen!' he cried.

　　"'Yes, thief!' I roared, shaking him by the shoulder.

　　"'There are none missing. there cannot be any missing,' said he."'There are three missing. And you know where they are. Must Icall you a liar as well as a thief? Did I not see you trying to tearoff another piece?'

　　"'You have called me names enough,' said he; 'I will not stand itany longer. I shall not say another word about this business, sinceyou have chosen to insult me. I will leave your house in the morningand make my own way in the world.'

　　"'You shall leave it in the hands of the police!' I cried,half-mad with grief and rage. 'I shall have this matter probed tothe bottom.'

　　"'You shall learn nothing from me,' said he with a passion such as Ishould not have thought you choose to call the police, let thepolice find what they can."

　　"By this time the whole house was astir, for I had raised my voicein my anger. Mary was the first to rush into my room, and, at thesight of the coronet and of and of Arthur's face, she read the wholestory and, with a scream, fell down senseless on the ground. I sentthe house-maid for the police and put the investigation into theirhands at once. When the inspector and a constable entered the house,Arthur, who had stood sullenly with his arms folded, asked mewhether it was my intention to charge him with theft. I answeredthat it had ceased to be a private matter, but had become a publicone, since the ruined coronet was national property. I wasdetermined that the law should have its way in everything."'At least,' said he, 'you will not have me arrested at once. Itwould be to your advantage as well as mine if I might leave thehouse for five minutes.'

　　"'That you may get away, or perhaps that you may conceal what youhave stolen; said I. And then, realizing the dreadful position inwhich I was placed, I implored him to remember that not only my honourbut that of one who was far greater than I was at stake; and that hethreatened to raise a scandal which would convulse the nation. Hemight avert it all if he would but tell me what he had done with thethree missing stones.

　　"'You may as well face the matter,' said I; 'you have been caught inthe act, and no confession could make your guilt more heinous. Ifyou but make such reparation as is in your power, by telling uswhere the beryls are, all shall be forgiven and forgotten.'"'Keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it,' he answered,turning away from me with a sneer. I saw that he was too hardenedfor any words of mine to influence him. There was but one way forit. I called in the inspector and gave him into custody. A searchwas made at once not only of his person but of his room and of everyportion of the house where he could possibly have concealed thegems; but no trace of them could be found, nor would the wretchedboy open his mouth for all our persuasions and our threats. Thismorning he was removed to a cell, and I, after going through all thepolice formalities, have hurried round to you to implore you to useyour skill in unravelling the matter. The police have openly confessedthat they can at present make nothing of it. You may go to any expensewhich you think necessary. I have already offered a reward of L1000.My God, what shall I do! I have lost my honour, my gems, and my son inone night. Oh, what shall I do!"

　　He put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to andfro, droning to himself like a child whose grief has got beyond words.Sherlock Holmes sat silent for some few minutes, with his browsknitted and his eyes fixed upon the fire.

　　"Do you receive much company?" he asked.

　　"None save my partner with his family and an occasional friend ofArthur's. Sir George Burnwell has been several times lately. No oneelse, I think."

　　"Do you go out much in society?"

　　"Arthur does. Mary and I stay at home. We neither of us care forit."

　　"That is unusual in a young girl."

　　"She is of a quiet nature. Besides, she is not so very young. She isfour-and twenty."

　　"This matter, from what you say, seems to have been a shock to heralso."

　　"Terrible! She is even more affected than I."

　　"You have neither of you any doubt as to your son's guilt?""How can we have when I saw him with my own eyes with the coronet inhis hands."

　　"I hardly consider that a conclusive proof. Was the remainder of thecoronet at all injured?"

　　"Yes, it was twisted."

　　"Do you not think, then, that he might have been trying tostraighten it?"

　　"God bless you! You are doing what you can for him and for me. Butit is too heavy a task. What was he doing there at all? If his purposewere innocent, why did he not say so?"

　　"Precisely. And if it were guilty, why did he not invent a lie?His silence appears to me to cut both ways. there are several singularpoints about the case. What did the police think of the noise whichawoke you from your sleep?"

　　"They considered that it might be caused by Arthur's closing hisbedroom door."

　　"A likely story! As if a man bent on felony would slam his door soas to wake a household. What did they say, then, of thedisappearance of these gems?"

　　"They are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture inthe hope of finding them."

　　"Have they thought of looking outside the house?"

　　"Yes, they have shown extraordinary energy. The whole garden hasalready been minutely examined."

　　"Now, my dear sir," said Holmes, "is it not obvious to you nowthat this matter really strikes very much deeper than either you orthe police were at first inclined to think? It appeared to you to be asimple case; to me it seems exceedingly complex. Consider what isinvolved by your theory. You suppose that your son came down fromhis bed, went, at great risk, to your dressing-room, opened yourbureau, took out your coronet, broke off by main force a small portionof it, went off to some other place, concealed three gems out of thethirty-nine, with such skill that nobody can find them, and thenreturned with the other thirty-six into the room in which he exposedhimself to the greatest danger of being discovered. I ask you now,is such a theory tenable?"

　　"But what other is there?" cried the banker with a gesture ofdespair. "If his motives were innocent, why does he not explain them?""It is our task to find that out," replied Holmes; "so now, if youplease, Mr. Holder, we will set off for Streatham together, and devotean hour to glancing a little more closely into details."My friend insisted upon my accompanying them in their expedition,which I was eager enough to do, for my curiosity and sympathy weredeeply stirred by the story to which we had listened. I confess thatthe guilt of the banker's son appeared to me to be as obvious as itdid to his unhappy father, but still I had such faith in Holmes'sjudgment that I felt that there must be some grounds for hope aslong as he was dissatisfied with the accepted explanation. He hardlyspoke a word the whole way out to the southern suburb, but sat withhis chin upon his breast and his hat drawn over his eyes, sunk inthe deepest thought. Our client appeared to have taken fresh heartat the little glimpse of hope which had been presented to him, andhe even broke into a desultory chat with me over his business affairs.A short railway journey and a shorter walk brought us to Fairbank, themodest residence of the great financier.

　　Fairbank was a good-sized square house of white stone, standing backa little from the road. A double carriage-sweep, with a snow-cladlawn, stretched down in front to two large iron gates which closed theentrance. On the right side was a small wooden thicket, which led intoa narrow path between two neat hedges stretching from the road tothe kitchen door, and forming the tradesmen's entrance. On the leftran a lane which led to the stables, and was not itself within thegrounds at all, being a public, though little used, thoroughfare.Holmes left us standing at the door and walked slowly all round thehouse, across the front, down the tradesmen's path, and so round bythe garden behind into the stable lane. So long was he that Mr. Holderand I went into the dining-room and waited by the fire until he shouldreturn. We were sitting there in silence when the door opened and ayoung lady came in. She was rather above the middle height, slim, withdark hair and eyes, which seemed the darker against the absolutepallor of her skin. I do not think that I have ever seen such deadlypaleness in a woman's face. Her lips, too, were bloodless, but hereyes were flushed with crying. As she swept silently into the room sheimpressed me with a greater sense of grief than the banker had done inthe morning, and it was the more striking in her as she wasevidently a woman of strong character, with immense capacity forself-restraint. Disregarding my presence, she went straight to heruncle and passed her hand over his head with a sweet womanly caress."You have given orders that Arthur should be liberated, have younot, dad?" she asked.

　　"No, no, my girl, the matter must be probed to the bottom.""But I am so sure that he is innocent. You know what woman'sinstincts are. I know that he has done no harm and that you will besorry for having acted so harshly."

　　"Why is he silent, then, if he is innocent?"

　　"Who knows? Perhaps because he was so angry that you shouldsuspect him."

　　"How could I help suspecting him, when I actually saw him with thecoronet in his hand?"

　　"Oh, but he had only picked it up to look at it. Oh, do, do takemy word for it that he is innocent. Let the matter drop and say nomore. It is so dreadful to think of our dear Arthur in prison!""I shall never let it drop until the gems are found-never, Mary!Your affection for Arthur blinds you as to the awful consequences tome. Far from hushing the thing up, I have brought a gentleman downfrom London to inquire more deeply into it."

　　"This gentleman?" she asked, facing round to me.

　　"No, his friend. He wished us to leave him alone. He is round in thestable lane now."

　　"The stable lane?" She raised her dark eyebrows. "What can he hopeto find there? Ah! this, I suppose, is he. I trust, sir, that you willsucceed in proving, what I feel sure is the truth. that my cousinArthur is innocent of this crime."

　　"I fully share your opinion, and I trust, with you, that we mayprove it," returned Holmes, going back to the mat to knock the snowfrom his shoes. "I believe I have the honour of addressing Miss MaryHolder. Might I ask you a question or two?"

　　"Pray do, sir, if it may help to clear this horrible affair up.""You heard nothing yourself last night?"

　　"Nothing, until my uncle here began to speak loudly. I heard that,and I came down."

　　"You shut up the windows and doors the night before. Did youfasten all the windows?"

　　"Yes."

　　"Were they all fastened this morning?"

　　"Yes."

　　"You have a maid who has a sweetheart? I think that you remarkedto your uncle last night that she had been out to see him?""Yes, and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room, and whomay have heard uncle's remarks about the coronet."

　　"I see. You infer that she may have gone out to tell her sweetheart,and that the two may have planned the robbery."

　　"But what is the good of all these vague theories," cried the bankerimpatiently, "When I have told you that I saw Arthur with thecoronet in his hands?"

　　"Wait a little, Mr. Holder. We must come back to that. About thisgirl, Miss Holder. You saw her return by the kitchen door, I presume?""Yes; when I went to see if the door was fastened for the night Imet her slipping in. I saw the man, too, in the gloom.""Do you know him?"

　　"Oh, yes! he is the green-grocer who brings our vegetables round.His name is Francis Prosper."

　　"He stood," said Holmes, "to the left of the door-that is to say,farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door?""Yes, he did."

　　"And he is a man with a wooden leg?"

　　Something like fear sprang up in the young lady's expressive blackeyes. "Why, you are like a magician," said she. "How do you knowthat?" She smiled, but there was no answering smile in Holmes'sthin, eager face.

　　"I should be very glad now to go upstairs," said he. "I shallprobably wish to go over the outside of the house again. Perhaps I hadbetter take a look at the lower windows before I go up."He walked swiftly round from one to the other, pausing only at thelarge one which looked from the hall onto the stable lane. This heopened and made a very careful examination of the sill with hispowerful magnifying lens. "Now we shall go upstairs," said he at last.The banker's dressing-room was a plainly furnished little chamber,with a gray carpet, a large bureau, and a long mirror. Holmes wentto the bureau first and looked hard at the lock.

　　"Which key was used to open it?" he asked.

　　"That which my son himself indicated-that of the cupboard of thelumber room."

　　"Have you it here?"

　　"That is it on the dressing-table."

　　Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bureau.

　　"It is a noiseless lock," said he. "It is no wonder that it didnot wake you. This case, I presume, contains the coronet. We must havea look at it." He opened the case, and taking out the diadem he laidit upon the table. It was a magnificent specimen of the jeweller'sart, and the thirty-six stones were the finest that I have everseen. At one side of the coronet was a cracked edge, where a cornerholding three gems had been torn away.

　　"Now, Mr. Holder," said Holmes, "here is the corner whichcorresponds to that which has been so unfortunately lost. Might Ibeg that you will break it off."

　　The banker recoiled in horror. "I should not dream of trying,"said he.

　　"Then I will." Holmes suddenly bent his strength upon it, butwithout result. "I feel it give a little," said he; "but, though Iam exceptionally strong in the fingers, it would take me all my timeto break it. An ordinary man could not do it. Now, what do you thinkwould happen if I did break it, Mr. Holder? There would be a noiselike a pistol shot. Do you tell me that all this happened within a fewyards of your bed and that you heard nothing of it?"

　　"I do not know what to think. It is all dark to me."

　　"But perhaps it may grow lighter as we go. What do you think, MissHolder?"

　　"I confess that I still share my uncle's perplexity."

　　"Your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him?""He had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt."

　　"Thank you. We have certainly been favoured with extraordinaryluck during this inquiry, and it will be entirely our own fault ifwe do not succeed in clearing the matter up. With your permission, Mr.Holder, I shall now continue my investigations outside."He went alone, at his own request, for he explained that anyunnecessary footmarks might make his task more difficult. For anhour or more he was at work, returning at last with his feet heavywith snow and his features as inscrutable as ever.

　　"I think that I have seen now all that there is to see, Mr. Holder,"said he; "I can serve you best by returning to my rooms.""But the gems, Mr. Holmes. Where are they?"

　　"I cannot tell."

　　The banker wrung his hands. "I shall never see them again!" hecried. "And my son? You give me hopes?"

　　"My opinion is in no way altered."

　　"Then, for God's sake, what was this dark business which was actedin my house last night?"

　　"If you can call upon me at my Baker Street rooms to-morrowmorning between nine and ten I shall be happy to do what I can to makeit clearer. I understand that you give me carte blanche to act foryou, provided only that I get back the gems, and that you place nolimit on the sum I may draw."

　　"I would give my fortune to have them back."

　　"Very good. I shall look into the matter between this and then.Good-bye; it is just possible that I may have to come over hereagain before evening."

　　It was obvious to me that my companion's mind was now made upabout the case, although what his conclusions were was more than Icould even dimly imagine. Several times during our homeward journeyI endeavoured to sound him upon the point, but he always glided awayto some other topic, until at last I gave it over in despair. It wasnot yet three when we found ourselves in our room once more. Hehurried to his chamber, and was down again in a few minutes dressed asa common loafer. With his collar turned up, his shiny, seedy coat, hisred cravat, and his worn boots, he was a perfect sample of the class."I think that this should do," said he, glancing into the glassabove the fireplace. "I only wish that you could come with me, Watson,but I fear that it won't do. I may be on the trail in this matter,or I may be following a will-o'-the-wisp, but I shall soon knowwhich it is. I hope that I may be back in a few hours." He cut a sliceof beef from the joint upon the sideboard, sandwiched it between tworounds of bread, and thrusting this rude meal into his pocket hestarted off upon his expedition.

　　I had just finished my tea when he returned, evidently inexcellent spirits, swinging an old elastic-sided boot in his hand.He chucked it down into a corner and helped himself to a cup of tea."I only looked in as I passed," said he. "I am going right on.""Where to?"

　　"Oh, to the other side of the West End. It may be some time before Iget back. Don't wait up for me in case I should be late.""How are you getting on?"

　　"Oh, so so. Nothing to complain of. I have been out to Streathamsince I saw you last, but I did not call at the house. It is a verysweet little problem, and I would not have missed it for a gooddeal. However, I must not sit gossiping here, but must get thesedisreputable clothes off and return to my highly respectable self."I could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons forsatisfaction than his words alone would imply. His eyes twinkled,and there was even a touch of colour upon his sallow cheeks. Hehastened upstairs, and a few minutes later I heard the slam of thehall door, which told me that he was off once more upon hiscongenial hunt.

　　I waited until midnight, but there was no sign of his return, so Iretired to my room. It was no uncommon thing for him to be away fordays and nights on end when he was hot upon a scent, so that hislateness caused me no surprise. I do not know at what hour he came in,but when I came down to breakfast in the morning there he was with acup of coffee in one hand and the paper in the other, as fresh andtrim as possible.

　　"You will excuse my beginning without you, Watson," said he, "butyou remember that our client has rather an early appointment thismorning."

　　"Why, it is after nine now," answered. "I should not be surprised ifthat were he. I thought I heard a ring."

　　It was, indeed, our friend the financier. I was shocked by thechange which had come over him, for his face which was naturally ofa broad and massive mould, was now pinched and fallen in, while hishair seemed to me at least a shade whiter. He entered with a wearinessand lethargy which was even more painful than his violence of themorning before, and he dropped heavily into the armchair which Ipushed forward for him.

　　"I do not know what I have done to be so severely tried," said he."Only two days ago I was a happy and prosperous man, without a care inthe world. Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured age. One sorrowcomes close upon the heels of another. My niece, Mary, has desertedme."

　　"Deserted you?"

　　"Yes. Her bed this morning had not been slept in, her room wasempty, and a note for me lay upon the hall table. I had said to herlast night, in sorrow and not in anger, that if she had married my boyall might have been well with him. Perhaps it was thoughtless of me tosay so. It is to that remark that she refers in this note:'MY DEAREST UNCLE:

　　'I feel that I have brought trouble upon you, and that if I hadacted differently this terrible misfortune might never haveoccurred. I cannot, with this thought in my mind, ever again behappy under your roof, and I feel that I must leave you forever. Donot worry about my future, for that is provided for; and, above all,do not search for me, for it will be fruitless labour and anill-service to me. In life or in death, I am ever

　　"Your loving "MARY.

　　"What could she mean by that note, Mr. Holmes? Do you think itpoints to suicide?"

　　"No, no, nothing of the kind. It is perhaps the best possiblesolution. I trust Mr. Holder, that you are nearing the end of yourtroubles."

　　"Ha! You say so! You have heard something, Mr. Holmes; you havelearned something! Where are the gems?"

　　"You would not think L1000 apiece an excessive sum for them?""I would pay ten."

　　"That would be unnecessary. Three thousand will cover the matter.And there is a little reward, I fancy. Have you your check-book?Here is a pen. Better make it out for L4000."

　　With a dazed face the banker made out the required check. Holmeswalked over to his desk, took out a little triangular piece of goldwith three gems in it, and threw it down upon the table.With a shriek of joy our client clutched it up.

　　"You have it!" he gasped. "I am saved! I am saved!"

　　The reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief had been, andhe hugged his recovered gems to his bosom.

　　"There is one other thing you owe, Mr. Holder," said Sherlock Holmesrather sternly.

　　"Owe!" He caught up a pen. "Name the sum, and I will pay it.""No, the debt is not to me. You owe a very humble apology to thatnoble lad, your son, who has carried himself in this matter as Ishould be proud to see my own son do, should I ever chance to haveone."

　　"Then it was not Arthur who took them?"

　　"I told you yesterday, and I repeat to-day, that it was not.""You are sure of it! Then let us hurry to him at once to let himknow that the truth is known."

　　"He knows it already. When I had cleared it all up I had aninterview with him, and finding that he would not tell me the story, Itold it to him, on which he had to confess that I was right and to addthe very few details which were not yet quite clear to me. Your newsof this morning, however, may open his lips."

　　"For heaven's sake, tell me, then, what is this extraordinarymystery!"

　　"I will do so, and I will show the steps by which I reached it.And let me to you, first, that which it is hardest for me to say andfor you to hear: there has been an understanding between Sir GeorgeBurnwell and your niece Mary. They have now fled together.""My Mary? Impossible!"

　　"It is unfortunately more than possible, it is certain. Neitheryou nor your son knew the true character of this man when you admittedhim into your family circle. He is one of the most dangerous men inEngland-a ruined gambler, an absolutely desperate villain, a manwithout heart or conscience. Your niece knew nothing of such men. Whenhe breathed his vows to her, as he had done to a hundred before her,she flattered herself that she alone had touched his heart. Thedevil knows best what he said, but at least she became his tool andwas in the habit of seeing him nearly every evening."

　　"I cannot, and I will not, believe it!" cried the banker with anashen face.

　　"I will tell you, then, what occurred in your house last night. Yourniece, when you had, as she thought, gone to your room, slipped downand talked to her lover through the window which leads into the stablelane. His footmarks had pressed right through the snow, so long had hestood there. She told him of the coronet. His wicked lust for goldkindled at the news, and he bent her to his will. I have no doubt thatshe loved you, but there are women in whom the love of a loverextinguishes all other loves, and I think that she must have been one.She had hardly listened to his instructions when she saw you comingdownstairs, on which she closed the window rapidly and told youabout one of the servants' escapade with her wooden-legged lover,which was all perfectly true.

　　"Your boy, Arthur, went to bed after his interview with you, buthe slept badly on account of his uneasiness about his club debts. Inthe middle of the night he heard a soft tread pass his door, so herose and, looking out, was surprised to see his cousin walking verystealthily along the passage until she disappeared into yourdressing-room. Petrified with astonishment, the lad slipped on someclothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of thisstrange affair. Presently she emerged from the room again, and inthe light of the passage-lamp your son saw that she carried theprecious coronet in her hands. She passed down the stairs, and he,thrilling with horror, ran along and slipped behind the curtain nearyour door, whence he could see what passed in the hall beneath. He sawher stealthily open the window, hand out the coronet to someone in thegloom, and then closing it once more hurry back to her room, passingquite close to where he stood hid behind the curtain.

　　"As long as she was on the scene he could not take any actionwithout a horrible exposure of the woman whom he loved. But theinstant that she was gone he realized how crushing a misfortune thiswould be for you, and how important it was to set it right. Herushed down, just as he was, in his bare feet, opened the window,sprang out into the snow, and ran down the lane, where he could seea dark figure in the moonlight. Sir George Burnwell tried to get away,but Arthur caught him, and there was a struggle between them, your ladtugging at one side of the coronet and his opponent at the other. Inthe scuffle, your son struck Sir George and cut him over the eye. Thensomething suddenly snapped, and your son, finding that he had thecoronet in his hands, rushed back, closed the window, ascended to yourroom, and had just observed that the coronet had been twisted in thestruggle and was endeavouring to straighten it when you appearedupon the scene."

　　"Is it possible?" gasped the banker.

　　"You then roused his anger by calling him names at a moment whenhe felt that he had deserved your warmest thanks. He could not explainthe true state of affairs without betraying one who certainly deservedlittle enough consideration at his hands. He took the morechivalrous view, however, and preserved her secret."

　　"And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw thecoronet," cried Mr. Holder. "Oh, my God! what a blind fool I havebeen! And his asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes! Thedear fellow wanted to see if the missing piece were at the scene ofthe struggle. How cruelly I have misjudged him!"

　　"When I arrived at the house," continued Holmes, "I at once wentvery carefully round it to observe if there were any traces in thesnow which might help me. I knew that none had fallen since theevening before, and also that there had been a strong frost topreserve impressions. I passed along the tradesmen's path, but foundit all trampled down and indistinguishable. just beyond it, however,at the far side of the kitchen door, a woman had stood and talked witha man, whose round impressions on one side showed that he had a woodenleg. I could even tell that they had been disturbed, for the woman hadrun back swiftly to the door, as was shown by the deep toe and lightheel marks, while Wooden-leg had waited a little, and then had goneaway. I thought at the time that this might be the maid and hersweetheart, of whom you had already spoken to me, and inquiry showedit was so. I passed round the garden without seeing anything more thanrandom tracks, which I took to be the police; but when I got intothe stable lane a very long and complex story was written in thesnow in front of me.

　　"There was a double line of tracks of a booted man, and a seconddouble line which I saw with delight belonged to a man with nakedfeet. I was at once convinced from what you had told me that thelatter was your son. The first had walked both ways, but the other hadrun swiftly, and as his tread was marked in places over the depressionof the boot, it was obvious that he had passed after the other. Ifollowed them up and found they led to the hall window, where Bootshad worn all the snow away while waiting. Then I walked to the otherend, which was a hundred yards or more down the lane. I saw whereBoots had faced round, where the snow was cut up as though there hadbeen a struggle, and, finally, where a few drops of blood hadfallen, to show me that I was not mistaken. Boots had then run downthe lane, and another little smudge of blood showed that it was he whohad been hurt. When he came to the highroad at the other end, Ifound that the pavement had been cleared, so there was an end tothat clue.

　　"On entering the house, however, I examined, as you remember, thesill and framework of the hall window with my lens, and I could atonce see that someone had passed out. I could distinguish theoutline of an instep where the wet foot had been placed in comingin. I was then beginning to be able to form an opinion as to whathad occurred. A man had waited outside the window; someone had broughtthe gems; the deed had been overseen by your son; he had pursued thethief, had struggled with him; they had each tugged at the coronet,their united strength causing injuries which neither alone couldhave effected. He had returned with the prize, but had left a fragmentin the grasp of his opponent. So far I was clear. The question nowwas, who was the man and who was it brought him the coronet?"It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded theimpossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.Now, I knew that it was not you who had brought it down, so there onlyremained your niece and the maids. But if it were the maids, whyshould your son allow himself to be accused in their place? Therecould be no possible reason. As he loved his cousin, however, therewas an excellent explanation why he should retain her secret-themore so as the secret was a disgraceful one. When I remembered thatyou had seen her at that window, and how she had fainted on seeing thecoronet again, my conjecture became a certainty.

　　"And who could it be who was her confederate? A lover evidently, forwho else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feelto you? I knew that you went out little, and that your circle offriends was a very limited one. But among them was Sir GeorgeBurnwell. I had heard of him before as being a man of evilreputation among women. It must have been he who wore those bootsand retained the missing gems. Even though he knew that Arthur haddiscovered him, he might still flatter himself that he was safe, forthe lad could not say a word without compromising his own family."Well, your own good sense will suggest what measures I took next. Iwent in the shape of a loafer to Sir George's house, managed to pickup an acquaintance with his valet, learned that his master had cut hishead the night before, and, finally, at the expense of sixshillings, made all sure by buying a pair of his cast-off shoes.With these I journeyed down to Streatham and saw that they exactlyfitted the tracks."

　　"I saw an ill-dressed vagabond in the lane yesterday evening,"said Mr. Holder.

　　"Precisely. It was I. I found that I had my man, so I came homeand changed my clothes. It was a delicate part which I had to playthen, for I saw that a prosecution must be avoided to avert scandal,and I knew that so astute a villain would see that our hands were tiedin the matter. I went and saw him. At first, of course, he deniedeverything. But when I gave him every particular that had occurred, hetried to bluster and took down a life-preserver from the wall. Iknew my man, however, and I clapped a pistol to his head before hecould strike. Then he became a little more reasonable. I told him thatwe would give him a price for the stones he held-L1000 apiece. Thatbrought out the first signs of grief that he had shown. 'Why, dashit all!' said he, 'I've let them go at six hundred for the three!' Isoon managed to get the address of the receiver who had them, onpromising him that there would be no prosecution. Off I set to him,and after much chaffering I got our stones at L1000 apiece. Then Ilooked in upon your son, told him that all was right, and eventuallygot to my bed about two o'clock, after what I may call a really hardday's work."

　　"A day which has saved England from a great public scandal," saidthe banker, rising. "Sir, I cannot find the words to thank you, butyou shall not find me ungrateful for what you have done. Your skillhas indeed exceeded all that I have heard of it. And now I must fly tomy dear boy to apologize to him for the wrong which I done him. Asto what you tell me of poor Mary, it goes to my very heart. Not evenyour skill can inform me where she is now."

　　"I think that we may safely say," returned Holmes, "that she iswherever Sir George Burnwell is. It is equally certain, too, thatwhatever her sins are, they will soon receive a more than sufficientpunishment."

　　THE END

　　.

　　1926

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE BLANCHED SOLDIER

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　The ideas of my friend Watson, though limited, are exceedinglypertinacious. For a long time he has worried me to write an experienceof my own. Perhaps I have rather invited this persecution, since Ihave often had occasion to point out to him how superficial are hisown accounts and to accuse him of pandering to popular taste insteadof confining himself rigidly to facts and figures. "Try it yourself,Holmes!" he has retorted, and I am compelled to admit that, havingtaken my pen in my hand, I do begin to realize that the matter must bepresented in such a way as may interest the reader. The following casecan hardly fail to do so, as it is among the strangest happenings inmy collection, though it chanced that Watson had no note of it inhis collection. Speaking of my old friend and biographer, I would takethis opportunity to remark that if I burden myself with a companion inmy various little inquiries it is not done out of sentiment orcaprice, but it is that Watson has some remarkable characteristicsof his own to which in his modesty he has given small attention amidhis exaggerated estimates of my own performances. A confederate whoforesees your conclusions and course of action is always dangerous,but one to whom each development comes as a perpetual surprise, and towhom the future is always a closed book, is indeed an ideal helpmate.I find from my notebook that it was in January, 1903, just after theconclusion of the Boer War, that I had my visit from Mr. James M.Dodd, a big, fresh, sunburned, upstanding Briton. The good Watsonhad at that time deserted me for a wife, the only selfish action whichI can recall in our association. I was alone.

　　It is my habit to sit with my back to the window and to place myvisitors in the opposite chair, where the light falls full uponthem. Mr. James M. Dodd seemed somewhat at a loss how to begin theinterview. I did not attempt to help him, for his silence gave me moretime for observation. I have found it wise to impress clients with asense of power, and so I gave him some of my conclusions."From South Africa, sir, I perceive."

　　"Yes, sir," he answered, with some surprise.

　　"Imperial Yeomanry, I fancy."

　　"Exactly."

　　"Middlesex Corps, no doubt."

　　"That is so. Mr. Holmes, you are a wizard."

　　I smiled at his bewildered expression.

　　"When a gentleman of virile appearance enters my room with suchtan upon his face as an English sun could never give, and with hishandkerchief in his sleeve instead of in his pocket, it is notdifficult to place him. You wear a short beard, which shows that youwere not a regular. You have the cut of a riding-man. As to Middlesex,your card has already shown me that you are a stockbroker fromThrogmorton Street. What other regiment would you join?""You see everything."

　　"I see no more than you, but I have trained myself to notice whatI see. However, Mr. Dodd, it was not to discuss the science ofobservation that you called upon me this morning. What has beenhappening at Tuxbury Old Park?"

　　"Mr. Holmes-!"

　　"My dear sir, there is no mystery. Your letter came with thatheading, and as you fixed this appointment in very pressing terms itwas clear that something sudden and important had occurred.""Yes, indeed. But the letter was written in the afternoon, and agood deal has happened since, then. If Colonel Emsworth had not kickedme out-"

　　"Kicked you out!"

　　"Well that was what it amounted to. He is a hard nail, is ColonelEmsworth. The greatest martinet in the Army in his day, and it was aday of rough language, too. I couldn't have stuck the colonel if ithad not been for Godfrey's sake."

　　I lit my pipe and leaned back in my chair.

　　"Perhaps you will explain what you are talking about."

　　My client grinned mischievously.

　　"I had got into the way of supposing that you knew everythingwithout being told," said he. "But I will give you the facts, and Ihope to God that you will be able to tell me what they mean. I've beenawake all night puzzling my brain, and the more I think the moreincredible does it become.

　　"When I joined up in January, 1901- just two years ago- youngGodfrey Emsworth had joined the same squadron. He was ColonelEmsworth's only son- Emsworth, the Crimean V.C.- and he had thefighting blood in him, so it is no wonder he volunteered. There wasnot a finer lad in the regiment. We formed a friendship- the sort offriendship which can only be made when one lives the same life andshares the same joys and sorrows. He was my mate- and that means agood deal in the Army. We took the rough and the smooth together for ayear of hard fighting. Then he was hit with a bullet from anelephant gun in the action near Diamond Hill outside Pretoria. I gotone letter from the hospital at Cape Town and one from SouthHampton. Since then not a word- not one word, Mr. Holmes, for sixmonths and more, and he my closest pal.

　　"Well, when the war was over, and we all got back, I wrote to hisfather and asked where Godfrey was. No answer. I waited a bit and thenI wrote again. This time I had a reply, short and gruff. Godfrey hadgone on a voyage round the world, and it was not likely that hewould be back for a year. That was all.

　　"I wasn't satisfied, Mr. Holmes. The whole thing seemed to me sodamned unnatural. He was a good lad, and he would not drop a pallike that. It was not like him. Then, again, I happened to know thathe was heir to a lot of money, and also that his father and he did notalways hit it off too well. The old man was sometimes a bully, andyoung Godfrey had too much spirit to stand it. No, I wasn't satisfied,and I determined that I would get to the root of the matter. Ithappened, however, that my own affairs needed a lot of straighteningout, after two years' absence, and so it is only this week that I havebeen able to take up Godfrey's case again. But since I have taken itup I mean to drop everything in order to see it through."Mr. James M. Dodd appeared to be the sort of person whom it would bebetter to have as a friend than as an enemy. His blue eyes werestern and his square jaw had set hard as he spoke.

　　"Well, what have you done?" I asked.

　　"My first move was to get down to his home, Tuxbury Old Park, nearBedford, and to see for myself how the ground lay. I wrote to themother, therefore- I had had quite enough of the curmudgeon of afather- and I made a clean frontal attack: Godfrey was my chum, Ihad a great deal of interest which I might tell her of our commonexperiences, I should be in the neighbourhood, would there be anyobjection, et cetera? In reply I had quite an amiable answer fromher and an offer to put me up for the night. That was what took medown on Monday.

　　"Tuxbury Old Hall is inaccessible- five miles from anywhere. Therewas no trap at the station, so I had to walk, carrying my suitcase,and it was nearly dark before I arrived. It is a great wanderinghouse, standing in a considerable park. I should judge it was of allsorts of ages and styles, starting on a half-timbered Elizabethanfoundation and ending in a Victorian portico. Inside it was allpanelling and tapestry and half-effaced old pictures, a house ofshadows and mystery. There was a butler, old Ralph, who seemed aboutthe same age as the house, and there was his wife, who might have beenolder. She had been Godfrey's nurse, and I had heard him speak ofher as second only to his mother in his affections, so I was drawnto her in spite of her queer appearance. The mother I liked also- agentle little white mouse of a woman. It was only the colonelhimself whom I barred.

　　"We had a bit of barney right away, and I should have walked back tothe station if I had not felt that it might be playing his game for meto do so. I was shown straight into his study, and there I foundhim, a huge, bow-backed man with a smoky skin and a straggling graybeard, seated behind his littered desk. A red-veined nose jutted outlike a vulture's beak, and two fierce gray eyes glared at me fromunder tufted brows. I could understand now why Godfrey seldom spoke ofhis father.

　　"'Well, sir,' said he in a rasping voice, 'I should be interested toknow the real reasons for this visit.'

　　"I answered that I had explained them in my letter to his wife."'Yes, yes, you said that you had known Godfrey in Africa. Wehave, of course, only your word for that.'

　　"'I have his letters to me in my pocket.'

　　"'Kindly let me see them.'

　　"He glanced at the two which I handed him, and then he tossed themback.

　　"'Well, what then?' he asked.

　　"'I was fond of your son Godfrey, sir. Many ties and memories unitedus. Is it not natural that I should wonder at his sudden silence andshould wish to know what has become of him?'

　　"'I have some recollections, sir, that I had already correspondedwith you and had told you what had become of him. He has gone upon avoyage round the world. His health was in a poor way after his Africanexperiences, and both his mother and I were of opinion that completerest and change were needed. Kindly pass that explanation on to anyother friends who may be interested in the matter.'

　　"'Certainly,' I answered. 'But perhaps you would have the goodnessto let me have the name of the steamer and of the line by which hesailed, together with the date. I have no doubt that I should beable to get a letter through to him.'

　　"My request seemed both to puzzle and to irritate my host. His greateyebrows came down over his eyes, and he tapped his fingersimpatiently on the table. He looked up at last with the expressionof one who has seen his adversary make a dangerous move at chess,and has decided how to meet it.

　　"'Many people, Mr. Dodd,' said he, 'would take offence at yourinfernal pertinacity and would think that this insistence hadreached the point of damned impertinence.'

　　"'You must put it down, sir, to my real love for your son.'"'Exactly. I have already made every allowance upon that score. Imust ask you, however, to drop these inquiries. Every family has itsown inner knowledge and its own motives, which cannot always be madeclear to outsiders, however well-intentioned. My wife is anxious tohear something of Godfrey's past which you are in a position to tellher, but I would ask you to let the present and the future alone, Suchinquiries serve no useful purpose, sir, and place us in a delicate anddifficult position.'

　　"So I came to a dead end, Mr. Holmes. There was no getting pastit. I could only pretend to accept the situation and register a vowinwardly that I would never rest until my friend's fate had beencleared up. It was a dull evening. We dined quietly, the three ofus, in a gloomy faded old room. The lady questioned me eagerly abouther son, but the old man seemed morose and depressed. I was so boredby the whole proceeding that I made an excuse as soon as I decentlycould and retired to my bedroom. It was a large, bare room on theground floor, as gloomy as the rest of the house, but after a yearof sleeping upon the veldt, Mr. Holmes, one is not too particularabout one's quarters. I opened the curtains and looked out into thegarden, remarking that it was a fine night with a bright half-moon.Then I sat down by the roaring fire with the lamp on a table besideme, and endeavoured to distract my mind with a novel. I wasinterrupted, however, by Ralph, the old butler, who came in with afresh supply of coals.

　　"'I thought you might run short in the night-time, sir. It is bitterweather and these rooms are cold.'

　　"He hesitated before leaving the room, and when I looked round hewas standing facing me with a wistful look upon his wrinkled face."'Beg your pardon, sir, but I could not help hearing what you saidof young Master Godfrey at dinner. You know, sir, that my wifenursed him, and so I may say I am his foster-father. It's natural weshould take an interest. And you say he carried himself well, sir?'"'There was never a braver man in the regiment. He pulled me outonce from under the rifles of the Boers, or maybe I should not behere.'

　　"The old butler rubbed his skinny hands.

　　"'Yes, sir, yes, that is Master Godfrey all over. He was alwayscourageous. There's not a tree in the park, sir, that he has notclimbed. Nothing would stop him. He was a fine boy- and oh, sir, hewas a fine man.'

　　"I sprang to my feet.

　　"'Look here!' I cried. 'You say he was. You speak as if he weredead. What is all this mystery? What has become of Godfrey Emsworth?'"I gripped the old man by the shoulder, but he shrank away."'I don't know what you mean, sir. Ask the master about MasterGodfrey. He knows. It is not for me to interfere.'

　　"He was leaving the room, but I held his arm.

　　"'Listen,' I said. 'You are going to answer one question beforeyou leave if I have to hold you all night. Is Godfrey dead?'"He could not face my eyes. He was like a man hypnotized. The answerwas dragged from his lips. It was a terrible and unexpected one."'I wish to God he was!' he cried, and, tearing himself free, hedashed from the room.

　　"You will think, Mr. Holmes, that I returned to my chair in novery happy state of mind. The old man's words seemed to me to bearonly one interpretation. Clearly my poor friend had become involved insome criminal or, at the least, disreputable transaction which touchedthe family honour. That stern old man had sent his son away and hiddenhim from the world lest some scandal should come to light. Godfrey wasa reckless fellow. He was easily influenced by those around him. Nodoubt he had fallen into bad hands and been misled to his ruin. It wasa piteous business, if it was indeed so, but even now it was my dutyto hunt him out and see if I could aid him. I was anxiouslypondering the matter when I looked up, and there was GodfreyEmsworth standing before me."

　　My client had paused as one in deep emotion.

　　"Pray continue," I said. "Your problem presents some very unusualfeatures."

　　"He was outside the window, Mr. Holmes, with his face pressedagainst the glass. I have told you that I looked out at the night.When I did so I left the curtains partly open. His figure was framedin this gap. The window came down to the ground and I could see thewhole length of it, but it was his face which held my gaze. He wasdeadly pale- never have I seen a man so white. I reckon ghosts maylook like that; but his eyes met mine, and they were the eyes of aliving man. He sprang back when he saw that I was looking at him,and he vanished into the darkness.

　　"There was something shocking about the man, Mr. Holmes. It wasn'tmerely that ghastly face glimmering as white as cheese in thedarkness. It was more subtle than that- something slinking,something furtive, something guilty- something very unlike thefrank, manly lad that I had known. It left a feeling of horror in mymind.

　　"But when a man has been soldiering for a year or two with brotherBoer as a playmate, he keeps his nerve and acts quickly. Godfrey hadhardly vanished before I was at the window. There was an awkwardcatch, and I was some little time before I could throw it up. Then Inipped through and ran down the garden path in the direction that Ithought he might have taken.

　　"It was a long path and the light was not very good, but it seemedto me something was moving ahead of me. I ran on and called hisname, but it was no use. When I got to the end of the path therewere several others branching in different directions to variousouthouses. I stood hesitating, and as I did so I heard distinctlythe sound of a closing door. It was not behind me in the house, butahead of me, somewhere in the darkness. That was enough, Mr. Holmes,to assure me that what I had seen was not a vision. Godfrey had runaway from me, and he had shut a door behind him. Of that I wascertain.

　　"There was nothing more I could do, and I spent an uneasy nightturning the matter over in my mind and trying to find some theorywhich would cover the facts. Next day I found the colonel rathermore conciliatory, and as his wife remarked that there were someplaces of interest in the neighbourhood, it gave me an opening toask whether my presence for one more night would incommode them. Asomewhat grudging acquiescence from the old man gave me a clear day inwhich to make my observations. I was already perfectly convincedthat Godfrey was in hiding somewhere near, but where and whyremained to be solved.

　　"The house was so large and so rambling that a regiment might be hidaway in it and no one the wiser. If the secret lay there it wasdifficult for me to penetrate it. But the door which I had heard closewas certainly not in the house. I must explore the garden and see whatI could find. There was no difficulty in the way, for the old peoplewere busy in their own fashion and left me to my own devices."There were several small outhouses, but at the end of the gardenthere was a detached building of some size- large enough for agardener's or a gamekeeper's residence. Could this be the place whencethe sound of that shutting door had come? I approached it in acareless fashion as though I were strolling aimlessly round thegrounds. As I did so, a small, brisk, bearded man in a black coatand bowler hat- not at all the gardener type- came out of the door. Tomy surprise, he locked it after him and put the key in his pocket.Then he looked at me with some surprise on his face.

　　"'Are you a visitor here?' he asked.

　　"I explained that I was and that I was a friend of Godfrey's."'What a pity that he should be away on his travels, for he wouldhave so liked to see me,' I continued.

　　"'Quite so. Exactly,' said he with a rather guilty air. 'No doubtyou will renew your visit at some more propitious time.' He passed on,but when I turned I observed that he was standing watching me,half-concealed by the laurels at the far end of the garden."I had a good look at that little house as I passed it, but thewindows were heavily curtained, and, so far as one could see, it wasempty. I might spoil my own game and even be ordered off thepremises if I were too audacious, for I was still conscious that I wasbeing watched. Therefore, I strolled back to the house and waitedfor night before I went on with my inquiry. When all was dark andquiet I slipped out of my window and made my way as silently aspossible to the mysterious lodge.

　　"I have said that it was heavily curtained, but now I found that thewindows were shuttered as well. Some light, however, was breakingthrough one of them, so I concentrated my attention upon this. I wasin luck, for the curtain had not been quite closed, and there was acrack in the shutter, so that I could see the inside of the room. Itwas a cheery place enough, a bright lamp and a blazing fire.Opposite to me was seated the little man whom I had seen in themorning. He was smoking a pipe and reading a paper."

　　"What paper?" I asked.

　　My client seemed annoyed at the interruption of his narrative."Can it matter?" he asked.

　　"It is most essential"

　　"I really took no notice."

　　"Possibly you observed whether it was a broad-leafed paper or ofthat smaller type which one associates with weeklies."

　　"Now that you mention it, it was not large. It might have been theSpectator. However, I had little thought to spare upon such details,for a second man was seated with his back to the window, and I couldswear that this second man was Godfrey. I could not see his face,but I knew the familiar slope of his shoulders. He was leaning uponhis elbow in an attitude of great melancholy, his body turnedtowards the fire. I was hesitating as to what I should do when therewas a sharp tap on my shoulder, and there was Colonel Emsworthbeside me.

　　"'This way, sir!' said he in a low voice. He walked in silence tothe house, and I followed him into my own bedroom. He had picked upa time-table in the hall.

　　"'There is a train to London at 8:30,' said he. 'The trap will be atthe door at eight.'

　　"He was white with rage, and, indeed, I felt myself in sodifficult a position that I could only stammer out a few incoherentapologies in which I tried to excuse myself by urging my anxiety formy friend.

　　"'The matter will not bear discussion,' said he abruptly. 'Youhave made a most damnable intrusion into the privacy of our family.You were here as a guest and you have become a spy. I have nothingmore to say, sir, save that I have no wish ever to see you again.'"At this I lost my temper, Mr. Holmes, and I spoke with some warmth."'I have seen your son, and I am convinced that for some reason ofyour own you are concealing him from the world. I have no idea whatyour motives are in cutting him off in this fashion, but I am surethat he is no longer a free agent. I warn you, Colonel Emsworth,that until I am assured as to the safety and well-being of my friend Ishall never desist in my efforts to get to the bottom of themystery, and I shall certainly not allow myself to be intimidated byanything which you may say or do.'

　　"The old fellow looked diabolical, and I really thought he was aboutto attack me. I have said that he was a gaunt, fierce old giant, andthough I am no weakling I might have been hard put to it to hold myown against him. However, after a long glare of rage he turned uponhis heel and walked out of the room. For my part, I took the appointedtrain in the morning, with the full intention of coming straight toyou and asking for your advice and assistance at the appointment forwhich I had already written."

　　Such was the problem which my visitor laid before me. Itpresented, as the astute reader will have already perceived, fewdifficulties in its solution, for a very limited choice ofalternatives must get to the root of the matter. Still, elementaryas it was, there were points of interest and novelty about it whichmay excuse my placing it upon record. I now proceeded, using myfamiliar method of logical analysis, to narrow down the possiblesolutions.

　　"The servants," I asked; "how many were in the house?"

　　"To the best of my belief there were only the old butler and hiswife. They seemed to live in the simplest fashion."

　　"There was no servant, then, in the detached house?"

　　"None, unless the little man with the beard acted as such. Heseemed, however, to be quite a superior person."

　　"That seems very suggestive. Had you any indication that food wasconveyed from the one house to the other?"

　　"Now that you mention it, I did see old Ralph carrying a basket downthe garden walk and going in the direction of this house. The ideaof food did not occur to me at the moment."

　　"Did you make any local inquiries?"

　　"Yes, I did. I spoke to the station-master and also to the innkeeperin the village. I simply asked if they knew anything of my oldcomrade, Godfrey Emsworth. Both of them assured me that he had gonefor a voyage round the world. He had come home and then had almostat once started off again. The story was evidently universallyaccepted."

　　"You said nothing of your suspicions?"

　　"Nothing."

　　"That was very wise. The matter should certainly be inquired into. Iwill go back with you to Tuxbury Old Park."

　　"To-day?"

　　It happened that at the moment I was clearing up the case which myfriend Watson has described as that of the Abbey School, in whichthe Duke of Greyminster was so deeply involved. I had also acommission from the Sultan of Turkey which called for immediateaction, as political consequences of the gravest kind might arise fromits neglect. Therefore it was not until the beginning of the nextweek, as my diary records, that I was able to start forth on mymission to Bedfordshire in company with Mr. James M. Dodd. As we droveto Euston we picked up a grave and taciturn gentleman of iron-grayaspect, with whom I had made the necessary arrangements."This is an old friend," said I to Dodd. "It is possible that hispresence may be entirely unnecessary, and, on the other hand, it maybe essential. It is not necessary at the present stage to go furtherinto the matter."

　　The narratives of Watson, have accustomed the reader, no doubt, tothe fact that I do not waste words or disclose my thoughts while acase is actually under consideration. Dodd seemed surprised, butnothing more was said, and the three of us continued our journeytogether. in the train I asked Dodd one more question which I wishedour companion to hear.

　　"You say that you saw your friend's face quite clearly at thewindow, so clearly that you are sure of his identity?"

　　"I have no doubt about it whatever. His nose was pressed against theglass. The lamplight shone full upon him."

　　"It could not have been someone resembling him?"

　　"No, no, it was he."

　　"But you say he was changed?"

　　"Only in colour. His face was- how shall I describe it?- it was of afish-belly whiteness. It was bleached."

　　"Was it equally pale all over?"

　　"I think not. It was his brow which I saw so clearly as it waspressed against the window."

　　"Did you call to him?"

　　"I was too startled and horrified for the moment. Then I pursuedhim, as I have told you, but without result."

　　My case was practically complete, and there was only one smallincident needed to round it off. When, after considerable drive, wearrived at the strange old rambling house which my client haddescribed, it was Ralph, the elderly butler, who opened the door. Ihad requisitioned the carriage for the day and had asked my elderlyfriend to remain within it unless we should summon him. Ralph, alittle wrinkled old fellow, was in the conventional costume of blackcoat and pepper-and-salt trousers, with only one curious variant. Hewore brown leather gloves, which at sight of us he instantlyshuffled off, laying them down on the hall-table as we passed in. Ihave, as my friend Watson may have remarked, an abnormally acute setof senses, and a faint but incisive scent was apparent. It seemed tocentre on the hall-table. I turned, placed my hat there, knocked itoff, stooped to pick it up, and contrived to bring my nose within afoot of the gloves. Yes, it was undoubtedly from them that the curioustarry odour was oozing. I passed on into the study with my casecomplete. Alas, that I should have to show my hand so when I tell myown story! It was by concealing such links in the chain that Watsonwas enabled to produce his meretricious finales.

　　Colonel Emsworth was not in his room, but he came quickly enoughon receipt of Ralph's message. We heard his quick, heavy step in thepassage. The door was flung open and he rushed in with bristling beardand twisted features, as terrible an old man as ever I have seen. Heheld our cards in his hand, and he tore them up and stamped on thefragments.

　　"Have I not told you, you infernal busybody, that you are warned offthe premises? Never dare to show your damned face here again. If youenter again without my leave I shall be within my rights if I useviolence. I'll shoot you, sir! By God, I will! As to you, sir,"turning upon me, "I extend the same warning to you. I am familiar withyour ignoble profession, but you must take your reputed talents tosome other field. There is no opening for them here."

　　"I cannot leave here," said my client firmly, "until I hear fromGodfrey's own lips that he is under no restraint."

　　Our involuntary host rang the bell.

　　"Ralph," he said, "telephone down to the county police and ask theinspector to send up two constables. Tell him there are burglars inthe house."

　　"One moment," said I. "You must be aware, Mr. Dodd, that ColonelEmsworth is within his rights and that we have no legal statuswithin his house. On the other hand, he should recognize that youraction is prompted entirely by solicitude for his son. I venture tohope that if I were allowed to have five minutes' conversation withColonel Emsworth I could certainly alter his view of the matter.""I am not so easily altered," said the old soldier. "Ralph, dowhat I have told you. What the devil are you waiting for? Ring upthe police!"

　　"Nothing of the sort," I said, putting my back to the door. "Anypolice interference would bring about the very catastrophe which youdread." I took out my notebook and scribbled one word upon a loosesheet. "That," said I as I handed it to Colonel Emsworth, "is what hasbrought us here."

　　He stared at the writing with a face from which every expressionsave amazement had vanished.

　　"How do you know?" he gasped, sitting down heavily in his chair."It is my business to know things. That is my trade."

　　He sat in deep thought, his gaunt hand tugging at his stragglingbeard. Then he made a gesture of resignation.

　　"Well, if you wish to see Godfrey, you shall. It is no doing ofmine, but you have forced my hand. Ralph, tell Mr. Godfrey and Mr.Kent that in five minutes we shall be with them."

　　At the end of that time we passed down the garden path and foundourselves in front of the mystery house at the end. A small beardedman stood at the door with a look of considerable astonishment uponhis face.

　　"This is very sudden, Colonel Emsworth," said he. "This willdisarrange all our plans."

　　"I can't help it, Mr. Kent. Our hands have been forced. Can Mr.Godfrey see us?"

　　"Yes, he is waiting inside." He turned and led us into a large,plainly furnished front room. A man was standing with his back tothe fire, and at the sight of him my client sprang forward withoutstretched hand.

　　"Why, Godfrey, old man, this is fine!"

　　But the other waved him back.

　　"Don't touch me, Jimmie. Keep your distance. Yes, you may wellstare! I don't quite look the smart Lance-Corporal Emsworth, of BSquadron, do I?"

　　His appearance was certainly extraordinary. One could see that hehad indeed been a handsome man with clear-cut features sunburned by anAfrican sun, but mottled in patches over this darker surface werecurious whitish patches which had bleached his skin.

　　"That's why I don't court visitors," said he. "I don't mind you,Jimmie, but I could have done without your friend. I suppose thereis some good reason for it, but you have me at a disadvantage.""I wanted to be sure that all was well with you, Godfrey. I sawyou that night when you looked into my window, and I could not let thematter rest till I had cleared things up."

　　"Old Ralph told me you were there, and I couldn't help taking a peepat you. I hoped you would not have seen me, and I had to run to myburrow when I heard the window go up."

　　"But what in heaven's name is the matter?"

　　"Well, it's not a long story to tell," said he, lighting acigarette. "You remember that morning fight at Buffelsspruit,outside Pretoria, on the Eastern railway line? You heard I was hit?""Yes, I heard that, but I never got particulars."

　　"Three of us got separated from the others. It was very brokencountry, you may remember. There was Simpson- the fellow we calledBaldy Simpson- and Anderson, and I. We were clearing brother Boer, buthe lay low and got the three of us. The other two were killed. I gotan elephant bullet through my shoulder. I stuck on to my horse,however, and he galloped several miles before I fainted and rolled offthe saddle.

　　"When I came to myself it was nightfall, and I raised myself up,feeling very weak and ill. To my surprise there was a house closebeside me, a fairly large house with a broad stoop and many windows.It was deadly cold. You remember the kind of numb cold which used tocome at evening, a deadly, sickening sort of cold, very different froma crisp healthy frost. Well I was chilled to the bone, and my onlyhope seemed to lie in reaching that house. I staggered to my feetand dragged myself along, hardly conscious of what I did. I have a dimmemory of slowly ascending the steps, entering a wide-opened door,passing into a large room which contained several beds, and throwingmyself down with a gasp of satisfaction upon one of them. It wasunmade, but that troubled me not at all. I drew the clothes over myshivering body and in a moment I was in a deep sleep.

　　"It was morning when I wakened, and it seemed to me that insteadof coming out into a world of sanity I had emerged into someextraordinary nightmare. The out African sun flooded through thebig, curtainless windows, and every detail of the great, bare,whitewashed dormitory stood out hard and clear. In front of me wasstanding a small, dwarf-like man with a huge, bulbous head, who wasjabbering excitedly in Dutch, waving two horrible hands which lookedto me like brown sponges. Behind him stood a group of people whoseemed to be intensely amused by the situation, but a chill cameover me as I looked at them. Not one of them was a normal human being.Every one was twisted or swollen or disfigured in some strange way.The laughter of these strange monstrosities was a dreadful thing tohear.

　　"It seemed that none of them could speak English, but thesituation wanted clearing up, for the creature with the big head wasgrowing furiously angry, and, uttering wild-beast cries, he had laidhis deformed hands upon me and was dragging me out of bed,regardless of the fresh flow of blood from my wound. The littlemonster was as strong as a bull, and I don't know what he might havedone to me had not an elderly man who was clearly in authority beenattracted to the room by the hubbub. He said a few stern words inDutch, and my persecutor shrank away. Then he turned upon me, gazingat me in the utmost amazement.

　　"'How in the world did you come here?' he asked in amazement.'Wait a bit! I see that you are tired out and that wounded shoulder ofyours wants looking after. I am a doctor, and I'll soon have youtied up. But, man alive! you are in far greater danger here thanever you were on the battlefield. You are in the Leper Hospital, andyou have slept in a leper's bed.'

　　"Need I tell you more, Jimmie? It seems that in view of theapproaching battle all these poor creatures had been evacuated the daybefore. Then, as the British advanced, they had been brought back bythis, their medical superintendent, who assured me that, though hebelieved he was immune to the disease, he would none the less neverhave dared to do what I had done. He put me in a private room, treatedme kindly, and within a week or so I was removed to the generalhospital at Pretoria.

　　"So there you have my tragedy. I hoped against hope, but it wasnot until I had reached home that the terrible signs which you seeupon my face told me that I had not escaped. What was I to do? I wasin this lonely house. We had two servants whom we could utterly trust.There was a house where I could live. Under pledge of secrecy, Mr.Kent, who is a surgeon, was prepared to stay with me. It seemed simpleenough on those lines. The alternative was a dreadful one- segregationfor life among strangers with never a hope of release. But absolutesecrecy was necessary, or even in this quiet countryside there wouldhave been an outcry, and I should have been dragged to my horribledoom. Even you, Jimmie- even you had to be kept in the dark. Why myfather has relented I cannot imagine."

　　Colonel Emsworth pointed to me.

　　"This is the gentleman who forced my hand." He unfolded the scrap ofpaper on which I had written the word "Leprosy." "It seemed to me thatif he knew so much as that it was safer that he should know all.""And so it was," said I. "Who knows but good may come of it? Iunderstand that only Mr. Kent has seen the patient. May I ask, sir, ifyou are an authority on such complaints, which are, I understand,tropical or semi-tropical in their nature?"

　　"I have the ordinary knowledge of the educated medical man," heobserved with some stiffness.

　　"I have no doubt, sir, that you are fully competent, but I am surethat you will agree that in such a case a second opinion isvaluable. You have avoided this, I understand, for fear thatpressure should be put upon you to segregate the patient.""That is so," said Colonel Emsworth.

　　"I foresaw this situation," I explained, "and I have brought with mea friend whose discretion may absolutely be trusted. I was able onceto do him a professional service, and he is ready to advise as afriend rather than as a specialist. His name is Sir James Saunders."The prospect of an interview with Lord Roberts would not haveexcited greater wonder and pleasure in a raw subaltern than was nowreflected upon the face of Mr. Kent.

　　"I shall indeed be proud," he murmured.

　　"Then I will ask Sir James to step this way. He is at present in thecarriage outside the door. Meanwhile, Colonel Emsworth, we may perhapsassemble in your study, where I could give the necessaryexplanations."

　　And here it is that I miss my Watson. By cunning questions andejaculations of wonder he could elevate my simple art, which is butsystematized common sense, into a prodigy. When I tell my own storyI have no such aid. And yet I will give my process of thought evenas I gave it to my small audience, which included Godfrey's motherin the study of Colonel Emsworth.

　　"That process," said I, "starts upon the supposition that when youhave eliminated all which is impossible, then whatever remains,however improbable, must be the truth. It may well be that severalexplanations remain, in which case one tries test after test until oneor other of them has a convincing amount of support. We will now applythis principle to the case in point. As it was first presented tome, there were three possible explanations of the seclusion orincarceration of this gentleman in an outhouse of his father'smansion. There was the explanation, that he was in hiding for a crime,or that he was mad and that they wished to avoid an asylum, or that hehad some disease which caused his segregation. I could think of noother adequate solutions. These, then, had to be sifted and balancedagainst each other.

　　"The criminal solution would not bear inspection. No unsolvedcrime had been reported from that district. I was sure of that. Ifit were some crime not yet discovered, then clearly it would be to theinterest of the family to get rid of the delinquent and send himabroad rather than keep him concealed at home. I could see noexplanation for such a line of conduct.

　　"Insanity was more plausible. The presence of the second person inthe outhouse suggested a keeper. The fact that he locked the door whenhe came out strengthened the supposition and gave the idea ofconstraint. On the other hand, this constraint could not be severeor the young man could not have got loose and come down to have a lookat his friend. You, will remember, Mr. Dodd, that I felt round forpoints, asking you, for example, about the paper which Mr. Kent wasreading. Had it been the Lancet or the British Medical Journal itwould have helped me. It is not illegal, however, to keep a lunaticupon private premises so long as there is a qualified person inattendance and that the authorities have been duly notified. Why,then, all this desperate desire for secrecy? Once again I could notget the theory to fit the facts.

　　"There remained the third possibility, into which, rare and unlikelyas it was, everything seemed to fit. Leprosy is not uncommon inSouth Africa. By some extraordinary chance this youth might havecontracted it. His people would be placed in a very dreadful position,since they would desire to save him from segregation. Great secrecywould be needed to prevent rumours from getting about and subsequentinterference by the authorities. A devoted medical man, ifsufficiently paid, would easily be found to take chance of thesufferer. There would be no reason why the latter should not heallowed freedom after dark. Bleaching of the skin is a common resultof the disease. The case was a strong one- so strong that I determinedto act as if it were actually proved. When on arriving here Inoticed that Ralph, who carries out the meals, had gloves which areimpregnated with disinfectants, my last doubts were removed. Asingle word showed you, sir, that your secret was discovered, and if Iwrote rather than said it, it was to prove to you that my discretionwas to be trusted."

　　I was finishing this little analysis of the case when the door wasopened and the austere figure of the great dermatologist was usheredin. But for once his sphinx-like features had relaxed and there wasa warm humanity in his eyes. He strode up to Colonel Emsworth andshook him by the hand.

　　"It is often my lot to bring ill-tidings and seldom good," saidhe. "This occasion is the more welcome. It is not leprosy.""A well-marked case of pseudo-leprosy or ichthyosis, a scale-likeaffection of the skin, unsightly, obstinate, but possibly curable, andcertainly noninfective. Yes, Mr. Holmes, the coincidence is aremarkable one. But is it coincidence? Are there not subtle forcesat work of which we know little? Are we assured that theapprehension from which this young man has no doubt sufferedterribly since his exposure to its contagion may not produce aphysical effect which simulates that which it fears? At any rate, Ipledge my professional reputation- But the lady has fainted! I thinkthat Mr. Kent had better be with her until she recovers from thisjoyous shock."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle

　　I had called upon my friend Sherlock Holmes upon the secondmorning after Christmas, with the intention of wishing him thecompliments of the season.  He was lounging upon the sofa in apurple dressing-gown, a pipe-rack within his reach upon the right,and a pile of crumpled morning papers, evidently newly studied,near at hand.  Beside the couch was a wooden chair, and on theangle of the back hung a very seedy and disreputable hard-felthat, much the worse for wear, and cracked in several places.  Alens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair suggested thatthe hat had been suspended in this manner for the purpose ofexamination.

　　"You are engaged," said I; "perhaps I interrupt you."

　　"Not at all.  I am glad to have a friend with whom I candiscuss my results.  The matter is a perfectly trivial one"--hejerked his thumb in the direction of the old hat--"but there arepoints in connection with it which are not entirely devoid ofinterest and even of instruction."

　　I seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before hiscrackling fire, for a sharp frost had set in, and the windows werethick with the ice crystals.  "I suppose," I remarked, "that,homely as it looks, this thing has some deadly story linked on toit--that it is the clue which will guide you in the solution ofsome mystery and the punishment of some crime."

　　"No, no.  No crime," said Sherlock Holmes, laughing.  "Onlyone of those whimsical little incidents which will happen when youhave four million human beings all jostling each other within thespace of a few square miles.  Amid the action and reaction of sodense a swarm of humanity, every possible combination of eventsmay be expected to take place, and many a little problem will bepresented which may be striking and bizarre without beingcriminal.  We have already had experience of such."

　　"So much so," I remarked, "that of the last six cases which Ihave added to my notes, three have been entirely free of any legalcrime."

　　"Precisely.  You allude to my attempt to recover the IreneAdler papers, to the singular case of Miss Mary Sutherland, and tothe adventure of the man with the twisted lip.  Well, I have nodoubt that this small matter will fall into the same innocentcategory.  You know Peterson, the commissionaire?"

　　"Yes."

　　"It is to him that this trophy belongs."

　　"It is his hat."

　　"No, no; he found it.  Its owner is unknown.  I beg that youwill look upon it not as a battered billycock but as anintellectual problem.  And, first, as to how it came here.  Itarrived upon Christmas morning, in company with a good fat goose,which is, I have no doubt, roasting at this moment in front ofPeterson's fire.  The facts are these: about four o'clock onChristmas morning, Peterson, who, as you know, is a very honestfellow, was returning from some small jollification and was makinghis way homeward down Tottenham Court Road.  In front of him hesaw, in the gaslight, a tallish man, walking with a slightstagger, and carrying a white goose slung over his shoulder.  Ashe reached the corner of Goodge Street, a row broke out betweenthis stranger and a little knot of roughs.  One of the latterknocked off the man's hat, on which he raised his stick to defendhimself and, swinging it over his head, smashed the shop windowbehind him.  Peterson had rushed forward to protect the strangerfrom his assailants; but the man, shocked at having broken thewindow, and seeing an official-looking person in uniform rushingtowards him, dropped his goose, took to his heels, and vanishedamid the labyrinth of small sheets which lie at the back ofTottenham Court Road.  The roughs had also fled at the appearanceof Peterson, so that he was left in possession of the field ofbattle, and also of the spoils of victory in the shape of thisbattered hat and a most unimpeachable Christmas goose.""Which surely he restored to their owner?"

　　"My dear fellow, there lies the problem.  It is true that `ForMrs. Henry Baker' was printed upon a small card which was tied tothe bird's left leg, and it is also true that the initials `H. B.'are legible upon the lining of this hat; but as there are somethousands of Bakers, and some hundreds of Henry Bakers in thiscity of ours, it is not easy to restore lost property to any oneof them."

　　"What, then, did Peterson do?"

　　"He brought round both hat and goose to me on Christmasmorning, knowing that even the smallest problems are of interestto me.  The goose we retained until this morning, when there weresigns that, in spite of the slight frost, it would be well that itshould be eaten without unnecessary delay.  Its finder has carriedit off, therefore, to fulfil the ultimate destiny of a goose,while I continue to retain the hat of the unknown gentleman wholost his Christmas dinner."

　　"Did he not advertise?"

　　"No."

　　"Then, what clue could you have as to his identity?"

　　"Only as much as we can deduce."

　　"From his hat?"

　　"Precisely."

　　"But you are joking.  What can you gather from this oldbattered felt?"

　　"Here is my lens.  You know my methods.  What can you gatheryourself as to the individuality of the man who has worn thisarticle?"

　　I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it overrather ruefully.  It was a very ordinary black hat of the usualround shape, hard and much the worse for wear.  The lining hadbeen of red silk, but was a good deal discoloured.  There was nomaker's name; but, as Holmes had remarkcd, the initials "H. B."were scrawled upon one side.  It was pierced in the brim for ahat-securer, but the elastic was missing.  For the rest, it wascracked, exceedingly dusty, and spotted in several places,although there seemed to have been some attempt to hide thediscoloured patches by smearing them with ink.

　　"I can see nothing," said I, handing it back to my friend."On the contrary, Watson, you can see everything.  You fail,however, to reason from what you see.  You are too timid indrawing your inferences."

　　"Then, pray tell me what it is that you can infer from thishat?"

　　He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspectivefashion which was characteristic of him.  "It is perhaps lesssuggestive than it might have been," he remarked, "and yet thereare a few inferences which are very distinct, and a few otherswhich represent at least a strong balance of probability.  Thatthe man was highly intellectual is of course obvious upon the faceof it, and also that he was fairly well-to-do within the lastthree years, although he has now fallen upon evil days.  He hadforesight, but has less now than formerly, pointing to a moralretrogression, which, when taken with the decline of his fortunes,seems to indicate some evil influence, probably drink, at workupon him.  This may account also for the obvious fact that hiswife has ceased to love him."

　　"My dear Holmes!"

　　"He has, however, retained some degree of self-respect," hecontinued, disregarding my remonstrance.  "He is a man who leads asedentary life, goes out little, is out of training entirely, ismiddle-aged, has grizzled hair which he has had cut within thelast few days, and which he anoints with lime-cream.  These arethe more patent facts which are to be deduced from his hat.  Also,by the way, that it is extremely improbable that he has gas laidon in his house."

　　"You are certainly joking, Holmes."

　　"Not in the least.  Is it possible that even now, when I giveyou these results, you are unable to see how they are attained?""I have no doubt that I am very stupid, but I must confessthat I am unable to follow you.  For example, how did you deducethat this man was intellectual?"

　　For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head.  It cameright over the forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose."It is a question of cubic capacity," said he; "a man with solarge a brain must have something in it."

　　"The decline of his fortunes, then?"

　　"This hat is three years old.  These flat brims curled at theedge came in then.  It is a hat of the very best quality.  Look atthe band of ribbed silk and the excellent lining.  If this mancould afford to buy so expensive a hat three years ago, and hashad no hat since, then he has assuredly gone down in the world.""Well, that is clear enough, certainly.  But how about theforesight and the moral retrogression?"

　　Sherlock Holmes laughed.  "Here is the foresight," said he,putting his finger upon the little disc and loop of thehat-securer.  "They are never sold upon hats.  If this man orderedone, it is a sign of a certain amount of foresight, since he wentout of his way to take this precaution against the wind.  Butsince we see that he has broken the elastic and has not troubledto replace it, it is obvious that he has less foresight now thanformerly, which is a distinct proof of a weakening nature.  On theother hand, he has endeavoured to conceal some of these stainsupon the felt by daubing them with ink, which is a sign that hehas not entirely lost his self-respect."

　　"Your reasoning is certainly plausible."

　　"The further points, that he is middle-aged, that his hair isgrizzled, that it has been recently cut, and that he useslime-cream, are all to be gathered from a close examination of thelower part of the lining.  The lens discloses a large number ofhair-ends, clean cut by the scissors of the barber.  They allappear to be adhesive, and there is a distinct odour oflime-cream.  This dust, you will observe, is not the gritty, graydust of the street but the fluffy brown dust of the house, showingthat it has been hung up indoors most of the time; while the marksof moisture upon the inside are proof positive that the wearerperspired very freely, and could therefore, hardly be in the bestof training."

　　"But his wife--you said that she had ceased to love him.""This hat has not been brushed for weeks.  When I see you, mydear Watson, with a week's accumulation of dust upon your hat, andwhen your wife allows you to go out in such a state, I shall fearthat you also have been unfortunate enough to lose your wife'saffection."

　　"But he might be a bachelor."

　　"Nay, he was bringing home the goose as a peace-offering tohis wife.  Remember the card upon the bird's leg."

　　"You have an answer to everything.  But how on earth do youdeduce that the gas is not laid on in his house?"

　　"One tallow stain, or even two, might come by chance; but whenI see no less than five, I think that there can be little doubtthat the individual must be brought into frequent contact withburning tallow--walks upstairs at night probably with his hat inone hand and a guttering candle in the other.  Anyhow, he nevergot tallow-stains from a gas-jet.  Are you satisfied?"

　　"Well, it is very ingenious," said I, laughing; "but since, asyou said just now, there has been no crime committed, and no harmdone save the loss of a goose, all this seems to be rather a wasteof energy."

　　Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply, when the doorflew open, and Peterson, the commissionaire, rushed into theapartment with flushed cheeks and the face of a man who is dazedwith astonishment.

　　"The goose, Mr. Holmes!  The goose, sir!" he gasped.

　　"Eh?  What of it, then?  Has it returned to life and flappedoff through the kitchen window?"  Holmes twisted himself roundupon the sofa to get a fairer view of the man's excited face."See here, sir!  See what my wife found in its crop!"  He heldout his hand and displayed upon the centre of the palm abrilliantly scintillating blue stone, rather smaller than a beanin size, but of such purity and radiance that it twinkled like anelectric point in the dark hollow of his hand.

　　Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle.  "By Jove, Peterson!"said he, "this is treasure trove indeed.  I suppose you know whatyou have got?"

　　"A diamond, sir?  A precious stone.  It cuts into glass asthough it were putty."

　　"It's more than a precious stone.  It is the precious stone.""Not the Countess of Morcar's blue carbuncle!" I ejaculated."Precisely so.  I ought to know its size and shape, seeingthat I have read the advertisement about it in The Times every daylately.  It is absolutely unique, and its value can only beconjectured, but the reward offered of 1000 pounds is certainly notwithin a twentieth part of the market price."

　　"A thousand pounds!  Great Lord of mercy!"  The commissionaireplumped down into a chair and stared from one to the other of us."That is the reward, and I have reason to know that there aresentimental considerations in the background which would inducethe Countess to part with half her fortune if she could butrecover the gem."

　　"It was lost, if I remember aright, at the Hotel

　　Cosmopolitan," I remarked.

　　"Precisely so, on December 22d, just five days ago.  JohnHorner, a plumber, was accused of having abstracted it from thelady's jewel-case.  The evidence against him was so strong thatthe case has been referred to the Assizes.  I have some account ofthe matter here, I believe."  He rummaged amid his newspapers,glancing over the dates, until at last he smoothed one out,doubled it over, and read the following paragraph:

　　"Hotel Cosmopolitan Jewel Robbery.  John Horner, 26,

　　plumber, was brought up upon the charge of having upon the 22dinst., abstracted from the jewel-case of the Countess ofMorcar the valuable gem known as the blue carbuncle.  JamesRyder, upper-attendant at the hotel, gave his evidence to theeffect that he had shown Homer up to the dressing-room of theCountess of Morcar upon the day of the robbery in order thathe might solder the second bar of the grate, which was loose.He had remained with Horner some little time, but had finallybeen called away.  On returning, he found that Horner haddisappeared, that the bureau had been forced open, and thatthe small morocco casket in which, as it afterwards

　　transpired, the Countess was accustomed to keep her jewel, waslying empty upon the dressing-table.  Ryder instantly gave thealarm, and Homer was arrested the same evening; but the stonecould not be found either upon his person or in his rooms.Catherine Cusack, maid to the Countess, deposed to havingheard Ryder's cry of dismay on discovering the robbery, and tohaving rushed into the room, where she found matters asdescribed by the last witness.  Inspector Bradstreet, Bdivision, gave evidence as to the arrest of Homer, who

　　struggled frantically, and protested his innocence in thestrongest terms.  Evidence of a previous conviction forrobbery having been given against the prisoner, the magistraterefused to deal summarily with the offence, but referred it tothe Assizes.  Homer, who had shown signs of intense emotionduring the proceedings, fainted away at the conclusion and wascarried out of court.

　　"Hum!  So much for the police-court," said Holmes

　　thoughtfully, tossing aside the paper.  "The question for us nowto solve is the sequence of events leading from a rifledjewel-case at one end to the crop of a goose in Tottenham CourtRoad at the other.  You see, Watson, our little deductions havesuddenly assumed a much more important and less innocent aspect.Here is the stone; the stone came from the goose, and the goosecame from Mr. Henry Baker, the gentleman with the bad hat and allthe other characteristics with which I have bored you.  So now wemust set ourselves very seriously to finding this gentleman andascertaining what part he has played in this little mystery.  Todo this, we must try the simplest means first, and these lieundoubtedly in an advertisement in all the evening papers.  Ifthis fail, I shall have recourse to other methods."

　　"What will you say?"

　　"Give me a pencil and that slip of paper.  Now, then:

　　"Found at the corner of Goodge Street, a goose and a blackfelt hat.  Mr. Henry Baker can have the same by applying at6:30 this evening at 221B, Baker Street.

　　That is clear and concise."

　　"Very.  But will he see it?"

　　"Well, he is sure to keep an eye on the papers, since, to apoor man, the loss was a heavy one.  He was clearly so scared byhis mischance in breaking the window and by the approach ofPeterson that he thought of nothing but flight, but since then hemust have bitterly regretted the impulse which caused him to drophis bird.  Then, again, the introduction of his name will causehim to see it, for everyone who knows him will direct hisattention to it.  Here you are, Peterson, run down to theadvertising agency and have this put in the evening papers.""In which, sir?"

　　"Oh, in the Globe, Star, Pall Mall, St. James's, Evening NewsStandard, Echo, and any others that occur to you."

　　"Very well, sir.  And this stone?"

　　"Ah, yes, I shall keep the stone.  Thank you.  And, I say,Peterson, just buy a goose on your way back and leave it here withme, for we must have one to give to this gentleman in place of theone which your family is now devouring."

　　When the commissionaire had gone, Holmes took up the stone andheld it against the light.  "It's a bonny thing," said he.  "Justsee how it glints and sparkles.  Of course it is a nucleus andfocus of crime.  Every good stone is.  They are the devil's petbaits.  In the larger and older jewels every facet may stand for abloody deed.  This stone is not yet twenty years old.  It wasfound in the banks of the Amoy River in southern China and isremarkable in having every characteristic of the carbuncle, savethat it is blue in shade instead of ruby red.  In spite of itsyouth, it has already a sinister history.  There have been twomurders, a vitriol-throwing, a suicide, and several robberiesbrought about for the sake of this forty-grain weight ofcrystallized charcoal.  Who would think that so pretty a toy wouldbe a purueyor to the gallows and the prison?  I'll lock it up inmy strong box now and drop a line to the Countess to say that wehave it."

　　"Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?"

　　"I cannot tell."

　　"Well, then, do you imagine that this other one, Henry Baker,had anything to do with the matter?"

　　"It is, I think, much more likely that Henry Baker is anabsolutely innocent man, who had no idea that the bird which hewas carrying was of considerably more value than if it were madeof solid gold.  That, however, I shall determine by a very simpletest if we have an answer to our advertisement."

　　"And you can do nothing until then?"

　　"Nothing."

　　"In that case I shall continue my professional round.  But Ishall come back in the evening at the hour you have mentioned, forI should like to see the solution of so tangled a business.""Very glad to see you.  I dine at seven.  There is a woodcock,I believe.  By the way, in view of recent occurrences, perhaps Iought to ask Mrs. Hudson to examine its crop."

　　I had been delayed at a case, and it was a little afterhalf-past six when I found myself in Baker Street once more.  As Iapproached the house I saw a tall man in a Scotch bonnet with acoat which was buttoned up to his chin waiting outside in thebright semicircle which was thrown from the fanlight.  Just as Iarrived the door was opened, and we were shown up together toHolmes's room.

　　"Mr. Henry Baker, I believe," said he, rising from his

　　armchair and greeting his visitor with the easy air of genialitywhich he could so readily assume.  "Pray take this chair by thefire, Mr. Baker.  It is a cold night, and I observe that yourcirculation is more adapted for summer than for winter.  Ah,Watson, you have just come at the right time.  Is that your hat,Mr. Baker?"

　　"Yes, sir, that is undoubtedly my hat."

　　He was a large man with rounded shoulders, a massive head, anda broad, intelligent face, sloping down to a pointed beard ofgrizzled brown.  A touch of red in nose and cheeks, with a slighttremor of his extended hand, recalled Holmes's surmise as to hishabits.  His rusty black frock-coat was buttoned right up infront, with the collar turned up, and his lank wrists protrudedfrom his sleeves without a sign of cuff or shirt.  He spoke in aslow staccato fashion, choosing his words with care, and gave theimpression generally of a man of learning and letters who had hadill-usage at the hands of fortune.

　　"We have retained these things for some days," said Holmes,"because we expected to see an advertisement from you giving youraddress.  I am at a loss to know now why you did not advertise."Our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh.  "Shillings havenot been so plentiful with me as they once were," he remarked.  "Ihad no doubt that the gang of roughs who assaulted me had carriedoff both my hat and the bird.  I did not care to spend more moneyin a hopeless attempt at recovering them."

　　"Very naturally.  By the way, about the bird, we were

　　compelled to eat it."

　　"To eat it!"  Our visitor half rose from his chair in hisexcitement.

　　"Yes, it would have been of no use to anyone had we not doneso.  But I presume that this other goose upon the sideboard, whichis about the same weight and perfectly fresh, will answer yourpurpose equally well?"

　　"Oh, certainly, certainly," answered Mr. Baker with a sigh ofrelief.

　　"Of course, we still have the feathers, legs, crop, and so onof your own bird, so if you wish--"

　　The man burst into a hearty laugh.  "They might be useful tome as relics of my adventure," said he, "but beyond that I canhardly see what use the disjecta membra of my late acquaintanceare going to be to me.  No, sir, I think that, with yourpermission, I will confine my attentions to the excellent birdwhich I perceive upon the sideboard."

　　Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slightshrug of his shoulders.

　　"There is your hat, then, and there your bird," said he.  "Bythe way, would it bore you to tell me where you got the other onefrom?  I am somewhat of a fowl fancier, and I have seldom seen abetter grown goose."

　　"Certainly, sir," said Baker, who had risen and tucked hisnewly gained property under his arm.  "There are a few of us whofrequent the Alpha Inn, near the Museum--we are to be found in theMuseum itself during the day, you understand.  This year our goodhost, Windigate by name, instituted a goose club, by which, onconsideration of some few pence every week, we were each toreceive a bird at Christmas.  My pence were duly paid, and therest is familiar to you.  I am much indebted to you, sir, for aScotch bonnet is fitted neither to my years nor my gravity."  Witha comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us andstrode off upon his way.

　　"So much for Mr. Henry Baker," said Holmes when he had closedthe door behind him.  "It is quite certain that he knows nothingwhatever about the matter.  Are you hungry, Watson?"

　　"Not particularly."

　　"Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper andfollow up this clue while it is still hot."

　　"By all means."

　　It was a bitter night, so we drew on our ulsters and wrappedcravats about our throats.  Outside, the stars were shining coldlyin a cloudless sky, and the breath of the passers-by blew out intosmoke like so many pistol shots.  Our footfalls rang out crisplyand loudly as we swung through the doctors' quarter, WimpoleStreet, Harley Street, and so through Wigmore Street into OxfordStreet.  In a quarter of an hour we were in Bloomsbury at theAlpha Inn, which is a small public-house at the corner of one ofthe streets which runs down into Holborn.  Holmes pushed open thedoor of the private bar and ordered two glasses of beer from theruddy-faced, white-aproned landlord.

　　"Your beer should be excellent if it is as good as yourgeese," said he.

　　"My geese!"  The man seemed surprised.

　　"Yes.  I was speaking only half an hour ago to Mr. HenryBaker, who was a member of your goose club."

　　"Ah! yes, I see.  But you see, sir, them's not our geese.""Indeed!  Whose, then?"

　　"Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden.""Indeed?  I know some of them.  Which was it?"

　　"Breckinridge is his name."

　　"Ah!  I don't know him.  Well, here's your good health,landlord, and prosperity to your house.  Good-night."

　　"Now for Mr. Breckinridge," he continued, buttoning up hiscoat as we came out into the frosty air.  "Remember, Watson, thatthough we have so homely a thing as a goose at one end of thischain, we have at the other a man who will certainly get sevenyears' penal servitude unless we can establish his innocence.  Itis possible that our inquiry may but confirm his guilt; but, inany case, we have a line of investigation which has been missed bythe police, and which a singular chance has placed in our hands.Let us follow it out to the bitter end.  Faces to the south, then,and quick march!"

　　We passed across Holborn, down Endell Street, and so through azigzag of slums to Covent Garden Market.  One of the largeststalls bore the name of Breckinridge upon it, and the proprietor,a horsy-looking man, with a sharp face and trim side-whiskers, washelping a boy to put up the shutters.

　　"Good-evening.  It's a cold night"' said Holmes.

　　The salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at mycompanion.

　　"Sold out of geese, I see," continued Holmes, pointing at thebare slabs of marble.

　　"Let you have five hundred to-morrow morning."

　　"Thats no good."

　　"Well, there are some on the stall with the gas-flare.""Ah, but I was recommended to you."

　　"Who by?"

　　"The landlord of the Alpha."

　　"Oh, yes; I sent him a couple of dozen."

　　"Fine birds they were, too.  Now where did you get them from?"To my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from thesalesman.

　　"Now, then, mister," said he, with his head cocked and hisarms akimbo, "what are you driving at?  Let's have it straight,now."

　　"It is straight enough.  I should like to know who sold youthe geese which you supplied to the Alpha."

　　"Well, then, I shan't tell you.  So now!"

　　"Oh, it is a matter of no importance; but I don't know why youshould be so warm over such a trifle."

　　"Warm!  You'd be as warm, maybe, if you were as pestered as Iam.  When I pay good money for a good article there should be anend of the business; but it's `Where are the geese?' and `Who didyou sell the geese to?' and `What will you take for the geese?'One would think they were the only geese in the world, to hear thefuss that is made over them."

　　"Well,  I have no connection with any other people who havebeen making inquiries," said Holmes carelessly.  "If you won'ttell us the bet is off, that is all.  But I'm always ready to backmy opinion on a matter of fowls, and I have a fiver on it that thebird I ate is country bred."

　　"Well, then, you've lost your fiver, for it's town bred,"snapped the salesman.

　　"It's nothing of the kind."

　　"I say it is."

　　"I don't believe it."

　　"D'you think you know more about fowls than I, who havehandled them ever since I was a nipper?  I tell you, all thosebirds that went to the Alpha were town bred."

　　"You'll never persuade me to believe that."

　　"Will you bet, then?"

　　"It's merely taking your money, for I know that I am right.But I'll have a sovereign on with you, just to teach you not to beobstinate."

　　The salesman chuckled grimly.  "Bring me the books, Bill,"said he.

　　The small boy brought round a small thin volume and a greatgreasy-backed one, laying them out together beneath the hanginglamp.

　　"Now then, Mr. Cocksure," said the salesman, "I thought that Iwas out of geese, but before I finish you'll find that there isstill one left in my shop.  You see this little book?"

　　"Well?"

　　"That's the list of the folk from whom I buy.  D'you see?Well, then, here on this page are the country folk, and thenumbers after their names are where their accounts are in the bigledger.  Now, then!  You see this other page in red ink?  Well,that is a list of my town suppliers.  Now, look at that thirdname.  Just read it out to me."

　　"Mrs. Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road--249," read Holmes.

　　"Quite so.  Now turn that up in the ledger."

　　Holmes turned to the page indicated.  "Here you are, `Mrs.Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road, egg and poultry supplier.'""Now, then, what's the last entry?"

　　"`December 22d.  Twenty-four geese at 7s. 6d.'"

　　"Quite so.  There you are.  And underneath?"

　　"`Sold to Mr. Windigate of the Alpha, at 12s.'"

　　"What have you to say now?"

　　Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined.  He drew a sovereignfrom his pocket and threw it down upon the slab, turning away withthe air of a man whose disgust is too deep for words.  A few yardsoff he stopped under a lamp-post and laughed in the hearty,noiseless fashion which was peculiar to him.

　　"When you see a man with whiskers of that cut and the `Pink'un' protruding out of his pocket, you can always draw him by abet," said he.  "I daresay that if I had put 100 pounds down in front ofhim, that man would not have given me such complete information aswas drawn from him by the idea that he was doing me on a wager.Well, Watson, we are, I fancy, nearing the end of our quest, andthe only point which remains to be determined is whether we shouldgo on to this Mrs. Oakshott to-night, or whether we shouldreserve it for to-morrow.  It is clear from what that surly fellowsaid that there are others besides ourselves who are anxious aboutthe matter, and I should--"

　　His remarks were suddenly cut short by a loud hubbub whichbroke out from the stall which we had just left.  Turning round wesaw a little rat-faced fellow standing in the centre of the circleof yellow light which was thrown by the swinging lamp, whileBreckinridge, the salesman, framed in the door of his stall, wasshaking his fists fiercely at the cringing figure.

　　"I've had enough of you and your geese," he shouted.  "I wishyou were all at the devil together.  If you come pestering me anymore with your silly talk I'll set the dog at you.  You bring Mrs.Oakshott here and I'll answer her, but what have you to do withit?  Did I buy the geese off you?"

　　"No; but one of them was mine all the same," whined the littleman.

　　"Well, then, ask Mrs. Oakshott for it."

　　"She told me to ask you."

　　"Well, you can ask the King of Proosia, for all I care.  I'vehad enough of it.  Get out of this!"  He rushed fiercely forward,and the inquirer flitted away into the darkness.

　　"Ha! this may save us a visit to Brixton Road," whisperedHolmes.  "Come with me, and we will see what is to be made of thisfellow."  Striding through the scattered knots of people wholounged round the flaring stalls, my companion speedily overtookthe little man and touched him upon the shoulder.  He spranground, and I could see in the gas-light that every vestige ofcolour had been driven from his face.

　　"Who are you, then?  What do you want?" he asked in a

　　quavering voice.

　　"You will excuse me," said Holmes blandly, "but I could nothelp overhearing the questions which you put to the salesman justnow.  I think that I could be of assistance to you."

　　"You?  Who are you?  How could you know anything of thematter?"

　　"My name is Sherlock Holmes.  It is my business to know whatother people don't know."

　　"But you can know nothing of this?"

　　"Excuse me, I know everything of it.  You are endeavouring totrace some geese which were sold by Mrs. Oakshott, of BrixtonRoad, to a salesman named Breckinridge, by him in turn to Mr.Windigate, of the Alpha, and by him to his club, of which Mr.Henry Baker is a member."

　　"Oh, sir, you are the very man whom I have longed to meet,"cried the little fellow with outstretched hands and quiveringfingers.  "I can hardly explain to you how interested I am in thismatter."

　　Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which was passing.  "Inthat case we had better discuss it in a cosy room rather than inthis wind-swept market-place," said he.  "But pray tell me, beforewe go farther, who it is that I have the pleasure of assisting."The man hesitated for an instant.  "My name is John Robinson,"he answered with a sidelong glance.

　　"No, no; the real name," said Holmes sweetly.  "It is alwaysawkward doing business with an alias."

　　A flush sprang to the white cheeks of the stranger.  "Well,then," said he, "my real name is James Ryder."

　　"Precisely so.  Head attendant at the Hotel Cosmopolitan.Pray step into the cab, and I shall soon be able to tell youeverything which you would wish to know."

　　The little man stood glancing from one to the other of us withhalf-frightened, half-hopeful eyes, as one who is not sure whetherhe is on the verge of a windfall or of a catastrophe.  Then hestepped into the cab, and in half an hour we were back in thesitting-room at Baker Street.  Nothing had been said during ourdrive, but the high, thin breathing of our new companion, and theclaspings and unclaspings of his hands, spoke of the nervoustension within him.

　　"Here we are!" said Holmes cheerily as we filed into the room."The fire looks very seasonable in this weather.  You look cold,Mr. Ryder.  Pray take the basket-chair.  I will just put on myslippers before we settle this little matter of yours.  Now, then!You want to know what became of those geese?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"Or rather, I fancy, of that goose.  It was one bird, Iimagine, in which you were interested--white, with a black baracross the tail."

　　Ryder quivered with emotion.  "Oh, sir," he cried, "can youtell me where it went to?"

　　"It came here."

　　"Here?"

　　"Yes, and a most remarkable bird it proved.  I don't wonderthat you should take an interest in it.  It laid an egg after itwas dead--the bonniest, brightest little blue egg that ever wasseen.  I have it here in my museum."

　　Our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiecewith his right hand.  Holmes unlocked his strong-box and held upthe blue carbuncle, which shone out like a star, with a cold,brilliant, many-pointed radiance.  Ryder stood glaring with adrawn face, uncertain whether to claim or to disown it."The game's up, Ryder," said Holmes quietly.  "Hold up, man,or you'll be into the fire!  Give him an arm back into his chair,Watson.  He's not got blood enough to go in for felony withimpunity.  Give him a dash of brandy.  So!  Now he looks a littlemore human.  What a shrimp it is, to be sure!"

　　For a moment he had staggered and nearly fallen, but thebrandy brought a tinge of colour into his cheeks, and he satstaring with frightened eyes at his accuser.

　　"I have almost every link in my hands, and all the proofswhich I could possibly need, so there is little which you needtell me.  Still, that little may as well be cleared up to make thecase complete.  You had heard, Ryder, of this blue stone of theCountess of Morcar's?"

　　"It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it," said he in acrackling voice.

　　"I see--her ladyship's waiting-maid.  Well, the temptation ofsudden wealth so easily acquired was too much for you, as it hasbeen for better men before you; but you were not very scrupulousin the means you used.  It seems to me, Ryder, that there is themaking of a very pretty villain in you.  You knew that this manHorner, the plumber, had been concerned in some such matterbefore, and that suspicion would rest the more readily upon him.What did you do, then?  You made some small job in my lady'sroom--you and your confederate Cusack--and you managed that heshould be the man sent for.  Then, when he had left, you rifledthe jewel-case, raised the alarm, and had this unfortunate manarrested.  You then--"

　　Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched atmy companion's knees.  "For God's sake, have mercy!" he shrieked."Think of my father!  of my mother!  It would break their hearts.I never went wrong before!  I never will again.  I swear it.  I'llswear it on a Bible.  Oh, don't bring it into court!  For Christ'ssake, don't!"

　　"Get back into your chair!" said Holmes sternly.  "It is verywell to cringe and crawl now, but you thought little enough ofthis poor Horner in the dock for a crime of which he knewnothing."

　　"I will fly, Mr. Holmes.  I will leave the country, sir.  Thenthe charge against him will break down."

　　"Hum!  We will talk about that.  And now let us hear a trueaccount of the next act.  How came the stone into the goose, andhow came the goose into the open market?  Tell us the truth, forthere lies your only hope of safety."

　　Ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips.  "I will tellyou it just as it happened, sir," said he.  "When Horner had beenarrested, it seemed to me that it would be best for me to get awaywith the stone at once, for I did not know at what moment thepolice might not take it into their heads to search me and myroom.  There was no place about the hotel where it would be safe.I went out, as if on some commission, and I made for my sister'shouse.  She had married a man named Oakshott, and lived in BrixtonRoad, where she fattened fowls for the market.  All the way thereevery man I met seemed to me to be a policeman or a detective;and, for all that it was a cold night, the sweat was pouring downmy face before I came to the Brixton Road.  My sister asked mewhat was the matter, and why I was so pale; but I told her that Ihad been upset by the jewel robbery at the hotel.  Then I wentinto the back yard and smoked a pipe, and wondered what it wouldbe best to do.

　　"I had a friend once called Maudsley, who went to the bad, andhas just been serving his time in PentonvilIe.  One day he had metme, and fell into talk about the ways of thieves, and how theycould get rid of what they stole.  I knew that he would be true tome, for I knew one or two things about him; so I made up my mindto go right on to Kilburn, where he lived, and take him into myconfidence.  He would show me how to turn the stone into money.But how to get to him in safety?  I thought of the agonies I hadgone through in coming from the hotel.  I might at any moment beseized and searched, and there would be the stone in my waistcoatpocket.  I was leaning against the wall at the time and looking atthe geese which were waddling about round my feet, and suddenly anidea came into my head which showed me how I could beat the bestdetective that ever lived.

　　"My sister had told me some weeks before that I might have thepick of her geese for a Christmas present, and I knew that she wasalways as good as her word.  I would take my goose now, and in itI would carry my stone to Kilburn.  There was a little shed in theyard, and behind this I drove one of the birds--a fine big one,white, with a barred tail.  I caught it, and, prying its billopen, I thrust the stone down its throat as far as my finger couldreach.  The bird gave a gulp, and I felt the stone pass along itsgullet and down into its crop.  But the creature flapped andstruggled, and out came my sister to know what was the matter.  AsI turned to speak to her the brute broke loose and fluttered offamong the others.

　　"`Whatever were you doing with that bird, Jem?' says she."`Well,' said I, `you said you'd give me one for Christmas,and I was feeling which was the fattest.'

　　"`Oh,' says she, `we've set yours aside for you--Jem's bird,we call it.  It's the big white one over yonder.  There'stwenty-six of them, which makes one for you, and one for us, andtwo dozen for the market.'

　　"`Thank you, Maggie,' says I; `but if it is all the same toyou, I'd rather have that one I was handling just now.'"`The other is a good three pound heavier,' said she, `and wefattened it expressly for you.'

　　"`Never mind.  I'll have the other, and I'll take it now,'said I.

　　"`Oh, just as you like,' said she, a little huffed.  `Which isit you want, then?'

　　"`That white one with the barred tail, right in the middle ofthe flock.'

　　`Oh, very well.  Kill it and take it with you.'

　　"Well, I did what she said, Mr. Holmes, and I carried the birdall the way to Kilburn.  I told my pal what I had done, for he wasa man that it was easy to tell a thing like that to.  He laugheduntil he choked, and we got a knife and opened the goose.  Myheart turned to water, for there was no sign of the stone, and Iknew that some terrible mistake had occurred.  I left the bird,rushed back to my sister's, and hurried into the back yard.  Therewas not a bird to be seen there.

　　"`Where are they all, Maggie?' I cried.

　　"`Gone to the dealer's, Jem.'

　　"`Which dealer's?'

　　"`Breckinridge, of Covent Garden.'

　　"`But was there another with a barred tail?' I asked, `thesame as the one I chose?'

　　"`Yes, Jem; there were two barred-tailed ones, and I couldnever tell them apart.'

　　"Well, then, of course I saw it all, and I ran off as hard asmy feet would carry me to this man Breckinridge; but he had soldthe lot at once, and not one word would he tell me as to wherethey had gone.  You heard him yourselves to-night.  Well, he hasalways answered me like that.  My sister thinks that I am goingmad.  Sometimes I think that I am myself.  And now--and now I ammyself a branded thief, without ever having touched the wealth forwhich I sold my character.  God help me!  God help me!"  He burstinto convulsive sobbing, with his face buried in his hands.There was a long silence, broken only by his heavy breathing,and by the measured tapping of Sherlock Holmes's finger-tips uponthe edge of the table.  Then my friend rose and threw open thedoor.

　　"Get out!" said he.

　　"What, sir!  Oh, Heaven bless you!"

　　"No more words.  Get out!"

　　And no more words were needed.  There was a rush, a clatterupon the stairs, the bang of a door, and the crisp rattle ofrunning footfalls from the street.

　　"After all, Watson," said Holmes, reaching up his hand for hisclay pipe, "I am not retained by the police to supply theirdeficiencies.  If Horner were in danger it would be another thing;but this fellow will not appear against him, and the case mustcollapse.  I suppose that I am commuting a felony, but it is justpossible that I am saving a soul.  This fellow will not go wrongagain; he is too terribly frightened.  Send him to jail now, andyou make him a jail-bird for life.  Besides, it is the season offorgiveness.  Chance has put in our way a most singular andwhimsical problem, and its solution is its own reward.  If youwill have the goodness to touch the bell, Doctor, we will beginanother investigation, in which, also a bird will be the chieffeature."

　　.

　　1908

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE BRUCE-PARTINGTON PLAN

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　In the third week of November, in the year 1895, a dense yellow fogsettled down upon London. From the Monday to the Thursday I doubtwhether it was ever possible from our windows in Baker Street to seethe loom of the opposite houses. The first day Holmes had spent incross-indexing his huge book of references. The second and third hadbeen patiently occupied upon a subject which he had recently madehis hobby- the music of the Middle Ages. But when, for the fourthtime, after pushing back our chairs from breakfast we saw thegreasy, heavy brown swirl still drifting past us and condensing inoily drops upon the window-panes, my comrade's impatient and activenature could endure this drab existence no longer. He paced restlesslyabout our sitting-room in a fever of suppressed energy, biting hisnails, tapping the furniture, and chafing against inaction."Nothing of interest in the paper, Watson?" he said.

　　I was aware that by anything of interest, Holmes meant anything ofcriminal interest. There was the news of a revolution, of a possiblewar, and of an impending change of government; but these did notcome within the horizon of my companion. I could see nothingrecorded in the shape of crime which was not commonplace and futile.Holmes groaned and resumed his restless meanderings.

　　"The London criminal is certainly a dull fellow," said he in thequerulous voice of the sportsman whose game has failed him. "Lookout of this window, Watson. See how the figures loom up, are dimlyseen, and then blend once more into the cloud-bank. The thief or themurderer could roam London on such a day as the tiger does the jungle,unseen until he pounces, and then evident only to his victim.""There have," said I, "been numerous petty thefts."

　　Holmes snorted his contempt.

　　"This great and sombre stage is set for something more worthy thanthat," said he. "It is fortunate for this community that I am not acriminal."

　　"It is, indeed!" said I heartily.

　　"Suppose that I were Brooks or Woodhouse, or any of the fifty menwho have good reason for taking my life, how long could I surviveagainst my own pursuit? A summons, a bogus appointment, and allwould be over. It is well they don't have days of fog in the Latincountries- the countries of assassination. By Jove! here comessomething at last to break our dead monotony."

　　It was the maid with a telegram. Holmes tore it open and burst outlaughing.

　　"Well, well! What next?" said he. "Brother Mycroft is coming round.""Why not?" I asked.

　　"Why not? It is as if you met a tram-car coming down a country lane.Mycroft has his rails and he runs on them. His Pall Mall lodgings, theDiogenes Club, Whitehall- that is his cycle. Once, and only once, hehas been here. What upheaval can possibly have derailed him?""Does he not explain?"

　　Holmes handed me his brother's telegram.

　　Must see you over Cadogan West. Coming at once.

　　MYCROFT.

　　"Cadogan West? I have heard the name."

　　"It recalls nothing to my mind. But that Mycroft should break out inthis erratic fashion! A planet might as well leave its orbit. By theway, do you know what Mycroft is?"

　　I had some vague recollection of an explanation at the time of theAdventure of the Greek Interpreter.

　　"You told me that he had some small office under the Britishgovernment."

　　Holmes chuckled.

　　"I did not know you quite so well in those days. One has to bediscreet when one talks of high matters of state. You are right inthinking that he is under the British government. You would also beright in a sense if you said that occasionally he is the Britishgovernment."

　　"My dear Holmes!"

　　"I thought I might surprise you. Mycroft draws four hundred andfifty pounds a year, remains a subordinate, has no ambitions of anykind, will receive neither honour nor title, but remains the mostindispensable man in the country."

　　"But how?"

　　"Well, his position is unique. He has made it for himself. There hasnever been anything like it before, nor will be again. He has thetidiest and most orderly brain, with the greatest capacity for storingfacts, of any man living. The same great powers which I have turned tothe detection of crime he has used for this particular business. Theconclusions of every department are passed to him, and he is thecentral exchange, the clearing-house, which makes out the balance. Allother men are specialists, but his specialism is omniscience. Wewill suppose that a minister needs information as to a point whichinvolves the Navy, India, Canada and the bimetallic question; he couldget his separate advices from various departments upon each, butonly Mycroft can focus them all, and say offhand how each factor wouldaffect the other. They began by using him as a short-cut, aconvenience; now he has made himself an essential. In that great brainof his everything is pigeon-holed and can be handed out in an instant.Again and again his word has decided the national policy. He livesin it. He thinks of nothing else save when, as an intellectualexercise, he unbends if I call upon him and ask him to advise me onone of my little problems. But Jupiter is descending to-day. What onearth can it mean? Who is Cadogan West, and what is he to Mycroft?""I have it," I cried, and plunged among the litter of papers uponthe sofa. "Yes, yes, here he is, sure enough! Cadogan West was theyoung man who was found dead on the Underground on Tuesday morning."Holmes sat up at attention, his pipe halfway to his lips."This must be serious, Watson. A death which has caused my brotherto alter his habits can be no ordinary one. What in the world can hehave to do with it? The case was featureless as I remember it. Theyoung man had apparently fallen out of the train and killed himself.He had not been robbed, and there was no particular reason tosuspect violence. Is that not so?"

　　"There has been an inquest" said I, "and a good many fresh factshave come out. Looked at more closely, I should certainly say thatit was a curious case."

　　"Judging by its effect upon my brother, I should think it must bea most extraordinary one." He snuggled down in his armchair. "Now,Watson, let us have the facts."

　　"The man's name was Arthur Cadogan West. He was twenty-seven yearsof age, unmarried, and a clerk at Woolwich Arsenal."

　　"Government employ. Behold the link with Brother Mycroft!""He left Woolwich suddenly on Monday night. Was last seen by hisfiancee, Miss Violet Westbury, whom he left abruptly in the fogabout 7:30 that evening. There was no quarrel between them and she cangive no motive for his action. The next thing heard of him was whenhis dead body was discovered by a plate-layer named Mason, justoutside Aldgate Station on the Underground system in London.""When?"

　　"The body was found at six on the Tuesday morning. It was lying wideof the metals upon the left hand of the track as one goes eastward, ata point close to the station, where the line emerges from the tunnelin which it runs. The head was badly crushed- an injury which mightwell have been caused by a fall from the train. The body could onlyhave come on the line in that way. Had it been carried down from anyneighbouring street, it must have passed the station barriers, where acollector is always standing. This point seems absolutely certain.""Very good. The case is definite enough. The man, dead or alive,either fell or was precipitated from a train. So much is clear tome. Continue."

　　"The trains which traverse the lines of rail beside which the bodywas found are those which run from west to east, some being purelyMetropolitan, and some from Willesden and outlying junctions. It canbe stated for certain that this young man, when he met his death,was travelling in this direction at some late hour of the night, butat what point he entered the train it is impossible to state.""His ticket, of course, would show that."

　　"There was no ticket in his pockets."

　　"No ticket! Dear me, Watson, this is really very singular. Accordingto my experience it is not possible to reach the platform of aMetropolitan train without exhibiting one's ticket. Presumably,then, the young man had one. Was it taken from him in order to concealthe station from which he came? It is possible. Or did he drop it inthe carriage? That also is possible. But the point is of curiousinterest. I understand that there was no sign of robbery?""Apparently not. There is a list here of his possessions. Hispurse contained two pounds fifteen. He had also a check-book on theWoolwich branch of the Capital and Counties Bank. Through this hisidentity was established. There were also two dress-circle tickets forthe Woolwich Theatre, dated for that very evening. Also a small packetof technical papers."

　　Holmes gave an exclamation of satisfaction.

　　"There we have it at last, Watson! British government- Woolwich.Arsenal- technical papers- Brother Mycroft, the chain is complete. Buthere he comes, if I am not mistaken, to speak for himself."A moment later the tall and portly form of Mycroft Holmes wasushered into the room. Heavily built and massive, there was asuggestion of uncouth physical inertia in the figure, but above thisunwieldy frame there was perched a head so masterful in its brow, soalert in its steel-gray, deep-set eyes, so firm in its lips, and sosubtle in its play of expression, that after the first glance oneforgot the gross body and remembered only the dominant mind.At his heels came our old friend Lestrade, of Scotland Yard- thinand austere. The gravity of both their faces foretold some weightyquest. The detective shook hands without a word. Mycroft Holmesstruggled out of his overcoat and subsided into an armchair."A most annoying business, Sherlock," said he. "I extremelydislike altering my habits, but the powers that be would take nodenial. In the present state of Siam it is most awkward that Ishould be away from the office. But it is a real crisis. I havenever seen the Prime Minister so upset. As to the Admiralty- it isbuzzing like an overturned bee-hive. Have you read up the case?""We have just done so. What were the technical papers?""Ah, there's the point! Fortunately, it has not come out. Thepress would be furious if it did. The papers which this wretched youthhad in his pocket were the plans of the Bruce-Partington submarine."Mycroft Holmes spoke with a solemnity which showed his sense ofthe importance of the subject. His brother and I sat expectant."Surely you have heard of it? I thought everyone had heard of it.""Only as a name."

　　"Its importance can hardly be exaggerated. It has been the mostjealously guarded of all government secrets. You may take it from methat naval warfare becomes impossible within the radius of aBruce-Partington's operation. Two years ago a very large sum wassmuggled through the Estimates and was expended in acquiring amonopoly of the invention. Every effort has been made to keep thesecret. The plans, which are exceedingly intricate, comprising somethirty separate patents, each essential to the working of the whole,are kept in an elaborate safe in a confidential office adjoining thearsenal, with burglar-proof doors and windows. Under no conceivablecircumstances were the plans to be taken from the office. If the chiefconstructor of the Navy desired to consult them, even he was forced togo to the Woolwich office for the purpose. And yet here we find themin the pocket of a dead junior clerk in the heart of London. From anofficial point of view it's simply awful."

　　"But you have recovered them?"

　　"No, Sherlock, no! That's the pinch. We have not. Ten papers weretaken from Woolwich. There were seven in the pocket of Cadogan West.The three most essential are gone- stolen, vanished. You must dropeverything, Sherlock. Never mind your usual petty puzzles of thepolice-court. It's a vital international problem that you have tosolve. Why did Cadogan West take the papers, where are the missingones, how did he die, how came his body where it was found, how canthe evil be set right? Find an answer to all these questions, andyou will have done good service for your country."

　　"Why do you not solve it yourself, Mycroft? You can see as far asI."

　　"Possibly, Sherlock. But it is a question of getting details. Giveme your details, and from an armchair I will return you an excellentexpert opinion. But to run here and run there, to cross-questionrailway guards, and lie on my face with a lens to my eye- it is not mymetier. No, you are the one man who can clear the matter up. If youhave a fancy to see your name in the next honours list-"My friend smiled and shook his head.

　　"I play the game for the game's own sake," said he. "But the problemcertainly presents some points of interest, and I shall be verypleased to look into it. Some more facts, please."

　　"I have jotted down the more essential ones upon this sheet ofpaper, together with a few addresses which you will find of service.The actual official guardian of the papers is the famous governmentexpert, Sir James Walter, whose decorations and sub-titles fill twolines of a book of reference. He has grown gray in the service, is agentleman, a favoured guest in the most exalted houses, and, aboveall, a man whose patriotism is beyond suspicion. He is one of twowho have a key of the safe. I may add that the papers were undoubtedlyin the office during working hours on Monday, and that Sir Jamesleft for London about three o'clock taking his key with him. He was atthe house of Admiral Sinclair at Barclay Square during the whole ofthe evening when this incident occurred."

　　"Has the fact been verified?"

　　"Yes; his brother, Colonel Valentine Walter, has testified to hisdeparture from Woolwich, and Admiral Sinclair to his arrival inLondon; so Sir James is no longer a direct factor in the problem.""Who was the other man with a key?"

　　"The senior clerk and draughtsman, Mr. Sidney Johnson. He is a manof forty, married, with five children. He is a silent, morose man, buthe has, on the whole, an excellent record in the public service. He isunpopular with his colleagues, but a hard worker. According to his ownaccount, corroborated only by the word of his wife, he was at home thewhole of Monday evening after office hours, and his key has never leftthe watch-chain upon which it hangs."

　　"Tell us about Cadogan West."

　　"He has been ten years in the service and has done good work. He hasthe reputation of being hot-headed and impetuous, but a straight,honest man. We have nothing against him. He was next Sidney Johnson inthe office. His duties brought him into daily, personal contact withthe plans. No one else had the handling of them."

　　"Who locked the plans up that night?"

　　"Mr. Sidney Johnson, the senior clerk."

　　"Well, it is surely perfectly clear who took them away. They areactually found upon the person of this junior clerk, Cadogan West.That seems final, does it not?"

　　"It does, Sherlock, and yet it leaves so much unexplained. In thefirst place, why did he take them?"

　　"I presume they were of value?"

　　"He could have got several thousands for them very easily.""Can you suggest any possible motive for taking the papers to Londonexcept to sell them?"

　　"No, I cannot."

　　"Then we must take that as our working hypothesis. Young West tookthe papers. Now this could only be done by having a false key-""Several false keys. He had to open the building and the room.""He had, then, several false keys. He took the papers to London tosell the secret, intending, no doubt, to have the plans themselvesback in the safe next morning before they were missed. While in Londonon this treasonable mission he met his end."

　　"How?"

　　"We will suppose that he was travelling back to Woolwich when he waskilled and thrown out of the compartment."

　　"Aldgate, where the body was found, is considerably past the stationfor London Bridge, which would be his route to Woolwich.""Many circumstances could be imagined under which he would passLondon Bridge. There was someone in the carriage, for example, withwhom he was having an absorbing interview. This interview led to aviolent scene in which he lost his life. Possibly he tried to leavethe carriage, fell out on the line, and so met his end. The otherclosed the door. There was a thick fog, and nothing could be seen.""No better explanation can be given with our present knowledge;and yet consider, Sherlock, how much you leave untouched. We willsuppose, for argument's sake, that young Cadogan West had determinedto convey these papers to London. He would naturally have made anappointment with the foreign agent and kept his evening clear. Insteadof that he took two tickets for the theatre, escorted his fiancehalfway there, and then suddenly disappeared."

　　"A blind," said Lestrade, who had sat listening with some impatienceto the conversation.

　　"A very singular one. That is objection No. 1. Objection No. 2.:We will suppose that he reaches London and sees the foreign agent.He must bring back the papers before morning or the loss will bediscovered. He took away ten. Only seven were in his pocket. Whathad become of the other three? He certainly would not leave them ofhis own free will. Then, again, where is the price of his treason? Onewould have expected to find a large sum of money in his pocket.""It seems to me perfectly clear," said Lestrade. "I have no doubt atall as to what occurred. He took the papers to sell them. He saw theagent. They could not agree as to price. He started home again, butthe agent went with him. In the train the agent murdered him, took themore essential papers, and threw his body from, the carriage. Thatwould account for everything, would it not?"

　　"Why had he no ticket?"

　　"The ticket would have shown which station was nearest the agent'shouse. Therefore he took it from the murdered man's pocket.""Good, Lestrade, very good," said Holmes. "Your theory holdstogether. But if this is true, then the case is at an end. On theone hand, the traitor is dead. On the other, the plans of theBruce-Partington submarine are presumably already on the Continent.What is there for us to do?"

　　"To act, Sherlock- to act!" cried Mycroft, springing to his feet."All my instincts are against this explanation. Use your powers! Go tothe scene of the crime! See the people concerned! Leave no stoneunturned! In all your career you have never had so great a chance ofserving your country."

　　"Well, well!" said Holmes, shrugging his shoulders. "Come, Watson!And you, Lestrade, could you favour us with your company for an houror two? We will begin our investigation by a visit to Aldgate Station.Good-bye, Mycroft. I shall let you have a report before evening, but Iwarn you in advance that you have little to expect."

　　An hour later Holmes, Lestrade and I stood upon the Undergroundrailroad at the point where it emerges from the tunnel immediatelybefore Aldgate Station. A courteous red-faced old gentlemanrepresented the railway company.

　　"This is where the young man's body lay," said he, indicating a spotabout three feet from the metals. "It could not have fallen fromabove, for these, as you see, are all blank walls. Therefore, it couldonly have come from a train, and that train, so far as we can traceit, must have passed about midnight on Monday."

　　"Have the carriages been examined for any sign of violence?""There are no such signs, and no ticket has been found.""No record of a door being found open?"

　　"None."

　　"We have had some fresh evidence this morning," said Lestrade. "Apassenger who passed Aldgate in an ordinary Metropolitan train about11:40 on Monday night declares that he heard a heavy thud, as of abody striking the line, just before the train reached the station.There was dense fog, however, and nothing could be seen. He made noreport of it at the time. Why, whatever is the matter with Mr.Holmes?"

　　My friend was standing with an expression of strained intensity uponhis face, staring at the railway metals where they curved out of thetunnel. Aldgate is a junction, and there was a network of points. Onthese his eager, questioning eyes were fixed, and I saw on his keen,alert face that tightening of the lips, that quiver of the nostrils,and concentration of the heavy, tufted brows which I knew so well."Points," he muttered; "the points."

　　"What of it? What do you mean?"

　　"I suppose there are no great number of points on a system such asthis?"

　　"No; there are very few."

　　"And a curve, too. Points, and a curve. By Jove! if it were onlyso."

　　"What is it, Mr. Holmes? Have you a clue?"

　　"An idea- an indication, no more. But the case certainly grows ininterest. Unique, perfectly unique, and yet why not? I do not seeany indications of bleeding on the line."

　　"There were hardly any."

　　"But I understand that there was a considerable wound.""The bone was crushed, but there was no great external injury.""And yet one would have expected some bleeding. Would it be possiblefor me to inspect the train which contained the passenger who heardthe thud of a fall in the fog?"

　　"I fear not, Mr. Holmes. The train has been broken up before now,and the carriages redistributed."

　　"I can assure you, Mr. Holmes," said Lestrade, "that everycarriage has been carefully examined. I saw to it myself."It was one of my friend's most obvious weaknesses that he wasimpatient with less alert intelligences than his own.

　　"Very likely," said he, turning away. "As it happens, it was not thecarriages which I desired to examine. Watson, we have done all wecan here. We need not trouble you any further, Mr. Lestrade. I thinkour investigations must now carry us to Woolwich."

　　At London Bridge, Holmes wrote a telegram to his brother, which hehanded to me before dispatching it. It ran thus:

　　See some light in the darkness, but it may possibly flicker out.Meanwhile, please send by messenger, to await return at BakerStreet, a complete list of all foreign spies or international agentsknown to be in England, with full address.

　　SHERLOCK.

　　"That should be helpful, Watson," he remarked as we took our seatsin the Woolwich train. "We certainly owe Brother Mycroft a debt forhaving introduced us to what promises to be a really very remarkablecase."

　　His eager face still wore that expression of intense and high-strungenergy, which showed me that some novel and suggestive circumstancehad opened up a stimulating line of thought. See the foxhound withhanging cars and drooping tail as it lolls about the kennels, andcompare it with the same hound as, with gleaming eyes and strainingmuscles, it runs upon a breast-high scent- such was the change inHolmes since the morning. He was a different man from the limp andlounging figure in the mouse-coloured dressing-gown who had prowled sorestlessly only a few hours before round the fog-girt room."There is material here. There is scope," said he. "I am dull indeednot to have understood its possibilities."

　　"Even now they are dark to me."

　　"The end is dark to me also, but I have hold of one idea which maylead us far. The man met his death elsewhere, and his body was onthe roof of a carriage."

　　"On the roof!"

　　"Remarkable, is it not? But consider the facts. Is it acoincidence that it is found at the very point where the train pitchesand sways as it comes round on the points? Is not that the place wherean object upon the roof might be expected to fall off? The pointswould affect no object inside the train. Either the body fell from theroof, or a very curious coincidence has occurred. But now consider thequestion of the blood. Of course, there was no bleeding on the line ifthe body had bled elsewhere. Each fact is suggestive in itself.Together they have a cumulative force."

　　"And the ticket, too!" I cried.

　　"Exactly. We could not explain the absence of a ticket. This wouldexplain it. Everything fits together."

　　"But suppose it were so, we are still as far as ever fromunravelling the mystery of his death. Indeed, it becomes not simplerbut stranger."

　　"Perhaps," said Holmes thoughtfully, "perhaps." He relapsed into asilent reverie, which lasted until the slow train drew up at last inWoolwich Station. There he called a cab and drew Mycroft's paperfrom his pocket.

　　"We have quite a little round of afternoon calls to make," saidhe. "I think that Sir James Walter claims our first attention."The house of the famous official was a fine villa with green lawnsstretching down to the Thames. As we reached it the fog was lifting,and a thin, watery sunshine was breaking through. A butler answeredour ring.

　　"Sir James, sir!" said he with solemn face. "Sir James died thismorning."

　　"Good heavens!" cried Holmes in amazement. "How did he die?""Perhaps you would care to step in, sir, and see his brother,Colonel Valentine?"

　　"Yes, we had best do so."

　　We were ushered into a dim-lit drawing-room, where an instantlater we were joined by a very tall, handsome, light-bearded man offifty, the younger brother of the dead scientist. His wild eyes,stained cheeks, and unkempt hair all spoke of the sudden blow whichhad fallen upon the household. He was hardly articulate as he spoke ofit.

　　"It was this horrible scandal," said he. "My brother, Sir James, wasa man of very sensitive honour, and he could not survive such anaffair. It broke his heart. He was always so proud of the efficiencyof his department, and this was a crushing blow."

　　"We had hoped that he might have given us some indications whichwould have helped us to clear the matter up."

　　"I assure you that it was all a mystery to him as it is to you andto all of us. He had already put all his knowledge at the disposalof the police. Naturally he had no doubt that Cadogan West was guilty.But all the rest was inconceivable."

　　"You cannot throw any new light upon the affair?"

　　"I know nothing myself save what I have read or heard. I have nodesire to be discourteous, but you can understand, Mr. Holmes, that weare much disturbed at present, and I must ask you to hasten thisinterview to an end."

　　"This is indeed an unexpected development," said my friend when wehad regained the cab. "I wonder if the death was natural, or whetherthe poor old fellow killed himself! If the latter, may it be takenas some sign of self-reproach for duty neglected? We must leave thatquestion to the future. Now we shall turn to the Cadogan Wests."A small but well-kept house in the outskirts of the town shelteredthe bereaved mother. The old lady was too dazed with grief to be ofany use to us, but at her side was a white-faced young lady, whointroduced herself as Miss Violet Westbury, the fiancee of the deadman, and the last to see him upon that fatal night.

　　"I cannot explain it, Mr. Holmes," she said. "I have not shut an eyesince the tragedy, thinking, thinking, thinking, night and day, whatthe true meaning of it can be. Arthur was the most single-minded,chivalrous, patriotic man upon earth. He would have cut his right handoff before he would sell a State secret confided to his keeping. It isabsurd, impossible, preposterous to anyone who knew him.""But the facts, Miss Westbury?"

　　"Yes, yes; I admit I cannot explain them."

　　"Was he in any want of money?"

　　"No; his needs were very simple and his salary ample. He had saved afew hundreds, and we were to marry at the New Year."

　　"No signs of any mental excitement? Come, Miss Westbury, beabsolutely frank with us."

　　The quick eye of my companion had noted some change in her manner.She coloured and hesitated.

　　"Yes," she said at last, "I had a feeling that there was somethingon his mind."

　　"For long?"

　　"Only for the last week or so. He was thoughtful and worried. Once Ipressed him about it. He admitted that there was something, and thatit was concerned with his official life. 'It is too serious for meto speak about, even to you,' said he. I could get nothing more."Holmes looked grave.

　　"Go on, Miss Westbury. Even if it seems to tell against him, goon. We cannot say what it may lead to,"

　　"Indeed, I have nothing more to tell. Once or twice it seemed tome that he was on the point of telling me something. He spoke oneevening of the importance of the secret, and I have somerecollection that he said that no doubt foreign spies would pay agreat deal to have it."

　　My friend's face grew graver still.

　　"Anything else?"

　　"He said that we were slack about such matters- that it would beeasy for a traitor to get the plans."

　　"Was it only recently that he made such remarks?"

　　"Yes, quite recently."

　　"Now tell us of that last evening."

　　"We were to go to the theatre. The fog was so thick that a cab wasuseless. We walked, and our way took us close to the office.Suddenly he darted away into the fog."

　　"Without a word?"

　　"He gave an exclamation; that was all. I waited but he neverreturned. Then I walked home. Next morning, after the office opened,they came to inquire. About twelve o'clock we heard the terrible news.Oh, Mr. Holmes, if you could only, only save his honour! It was somuch to him."

　　Holmes shook his head sadly.

　　"Come, Watson," said he, "our ways lie elsewhere. Our next stationmust be the office from which the papers were taken.

　　"It was black enough before against this young man, but ourinquiries make it blacker," he remarked as the cab lumbered off."His coming marriage gives a motive for the crime. He naturally wantedmoney. The idea was in his head, since he spoke about it. He nearlymade the girl an accomplice in the treason by telling her his plans.It is all very bad."

　　"But surely, Holmes, character goes for something? Then, again,why should he leave the girl in the street and dart away to commit afelony?"

　　"Exactly! There are certainly objections. But it is a formidablecase which they have to meet."

　　Mr. Sidney Johnson, the senior clerk, met us at the office andreceived us with that respect which my companion's card alwayscommanded. He was a thin, gruff, bespectacled man of middle age, hischeeks haggard, and his hands twitching from the nervous strain towhich he had been subjected.

　　"It is bad, Mr. Holmes, very bad! Have you heard of the death of thechief?"

　　"We have just come from his house."

　　"The place is disorganized. The chief dead, Cadogan West dead, ourpapers stolen. And yet, when we closed our door on Monday evening,we were as efficient an office as any in the government service.Good God, it's dreadful to think off That West, of all men, shouldhave done such a thing!"

　　"You are sure of his guilt, then?"

　　"I can see no other way out of it. And yet I would have trustedhim as I trust myself."

　　"At what hour was the office closed on Monday?"

　　"At five."

　　"Did you close it?"

　　"I am always the last man out."

　　"Where were the plans?"

　　"In that safe. I put them there myself."

　　"Is there no watchman to the building?"

　　"There is, but he has other departments to look after as well. He isan old soldier and a most trustworthy man. He saw nothing thatevening. Of course the fog was very thick."

　　"Suppose that Cadogan West wished to make his way into thebuilding after hours; he would need three keys, would he not, beforehe could reach the papers?"

　　"Yes, he would. The key of the outer door, the key of the office,and the key of the safe."

　　"Only Sir James Walter and you had those keys?"

　　"I had no keys of the doors- only of the safe."

　　"Was Sir James a man who was orderly in his habits?"

　　"Yes, I think he was. I know that so far as those three keys areconcerned he kept them on the same ring. I have often seen themthere."

　　"And that ring went with him to London?"

　　"He said so."

　　"And your key never left your possession?"

　　"Never."

　　"Then West, if he is the culprit, must have had a duplicate. And yetnone were found upon his body. One other point: if a clerk in thisoffice desired to sell the plans, would it not be simpler to copythe plans for himself than to take the originals, as was actuallydone?"

　　"It would take considerable technical knowledge to copy the plans inan effective way."

　　"But I suppose either Sir James, or you, or West had thattechnical knowledge?"

　　"No doubt we had, but I beg you won't try to drag me into thematter, Mr. Holmes. What is the use of our speculating in this waywhen the original plans were actually found on West?"

　　"Well, it is certainly singular that he should run the risk oftaking originals if he could safely have taken copies, which wouldhave equally served his turn."

　　"Singular, no doubt- and yet he did so."

　　"Every inquiry in this case reveals something inexplicable. Nowthere are three papers still missing. They are, as I understand, thevital ones."

　　"Yes, that is so."

　　"Do you mean to say that anyone holding these three papers, andwithout the seven others, could construct a Bruce-Partingtonsubmarine?"

　　"I reported to that effect to the Admiralty. But to-day I havebeen over the drawings again, and I am not so sure of it. The doublevalves with the automatic self-adjusting slots are drawn in one of thepapers which have been returned. Until the foreigners had inventedthat for themselves they could not make the boat. Of course they mightsoon get over the difficulty."

　　"But the three missing drawings are the most important?""Undoubtedly."

　　"I think, with your permission, I will now take a stroll round thepremises. I do not recall any other question which I desired to ask."He examined the lock of the safe, the door of the room, andfinally the iron shutters of the window. It was only when we were onthe lawn outside that his interest was strongly excited. There was alaurel bush outside the window, and several of the branches bore signsof having been twisted or snapped. He examined them carefully with hislens, and then some dim and vague marks upon the earth beneath.Finally he asked the chief clerk to close the iron shutters, and hepointed out to me that they hardly met in the centre, and that itwould be possible for anyone outside to see what was going on withinthe room.

　　"The indications are ruined by the three days' delay. They maymean something or nothing. Well, Watson, I do not think thatWoolwich can help us further. It is a small crop which we havegathered. Let us see if we can do better in London."

　　Yet we added one more sheaf to our harvest before we left WoolwichStation. The clerk in the ticket office was able to say withconfidence that he saw Cadogan West- whom he knew well by sight-upon the Monday night, and that he went to London by the 8:15 toLondon Bridge. He was alone and took a single third-class ticket.The clerk was struck at the time by his excited and nervous manner. Soshaky was he that he could hardly pick up his change, and the clerkhad helped him with it. A reference to the timetable showed that the8:15 was the first train which it was possible for West to takeafter he had left the lady about 7:30.

　　"Let us reconstruct, Watson," said Holmes after half an hour ofsilence. "I am not aware that in all our joint researches we have everhad a case which was more difficult to get at. Every fresh advancewhich we make only reveals a fresh ridge beyond. And yet we havesurely made some appreciable progress.

　　"The effect of our inquiries at Woolwich has in the main beenagainst young Cadogan West; but the indications at the window wouldlend themselves to a more favourable hypothesis. Let us suppose, forexample, that he had been approached by some foreign agent. It mighthave been done under such pledges as would have prevented him fromspeaking of it, and yet would have affected his thoughts in thedirection indicated by his remarks to his fiancee. Very good. Wewill now suppose that as he went to the theatre with the young lady hesuddenly, in the fog, caught a glimpse of this same agent going in thedirection of the office. He was an impetuous man, quick in hisdecisions. Everything gave way to his duty. He followed the man,reached the window, saw the abstraction of the documents, andpursued the thief. In this way we get over the objection that no onewould take originals when he could make copies. This outsider had totake originals. So far it holds together."

　　"What is the next step?"

　　"Then we come into difficulties. One would imagine that under suchcircumstances the first act of young Cadogan West would be to seizethe villain and raise the alarm. Why did he not do so? Could it havebeen an official superior who took the papers? That would explainWest's conduct. Or could the chief have given West the slip in thefog, and West started at once to London to head him off from his ownrooms, presuming that he knew where the rooms were? The call must havebeen very pressing, since he left his girl standing in the fog andmade no effort to communicate with her. Our scent runs cold here,and there is a vast gap between either hypothesis and the laying ofWest's body, with seven papers in his pocket, on the roof of aMetropolitan train. My instinct now is to work from the other end.If Mycroft has given us the list of addresses we may be able to pickour man and follow two tracks instead of one."

　　Surely enough, a note awaited us at Baker Street. A governmentmessenger had brought it post-haste. Holmes glanced at it and threw itover to me.

　　"There are numerous small fry, but few who would handle so big anaffair. The only men worth considering are Adolph Meyer, of 13 GreatGeorge Street, Westminster; Louis La Rothiere, of Campden Mansions,Notting Hill; and Hugo Oberstein, 13 Caulfield Gardens, Kensington.The latter was known to be in town on Monday and is now reported ashaving left. Glad to hear you have seen some light. The Cabinet awaitsyour final report with the utmost anxiety. Urgent representations havearrived from the very highest quarter. The whole force of the State isat your back if you should need it.

　　MYCROFT.

　　"I'm afraid," said Holmes, smiling, "that all the queen's horses andall the queen's men cannot avail in this matter." He had spread outhis big map of London and leaned eagerly over it. "Well, well," saidhe presently with an exclamation of satisfaction, "things areturning a little in our direction at last. Why, Watson, I dohonestly believe that we are going to pull it off, after all." Heslapped me on the shoulder with a sudden burst of hilarity, "I amgoing out now. It is only a reconnaissance. I will do nothingserious without my trusted comrade and biographer at my elbow. Doyou stay here, and the odds are that you will see me again in anhour or two. If time hangs heavy get foolscap and a pen, and beginyour narrative of how we saved the State."

　　I felt some reflection of his elation in my own mind, for I knewwell that he would not depart so far from his usual austerity ofdemeanour unless there was good cause for exultation. All the longNovember evening I waited, filled with impatience for his return. Atlast, shortly after nine o'clock, there arrived a messenger with anote:

　　Am dining at Goldini's Restaurant, Gloucester Road, Kensington.Please come at once and join me there. Bring with you a jemmy, adark lantern, a chisel, and a revolver.

　　S. H.

　　It was a nice equipment for a respectable citizen to carry throughthe dim, fog-draped streets. I stowed them all discreetly away in myovercoat and drove straight to the address given. There sat myfriend at a little round table near the door of the garish Italianrestaurant.

　　"Have you had something to eat? Then join me in a coffee andcuracao. Try one of the proprietor's cigars. They are less poisonousthan one would expect. Have you the tools?"

　　"They are here, in my overcoat."

　　"Excellent. Let me give you a short sketch of what I have done, withsome indication of what we are about to do. Now it must be evidentto you, Watson, that this young man's body was placed on the roof ofthe train. That was clear from the instant that I determined thefact that it was from the roof, and not from a carriage, that he hadfallen."

　　"Could it not have been dropped from a bridge?"

　　"I should say it was impossible. If you examine the roofs you willfind that they are slightly rounded, and there is no railing roundthem. Therefore, we can say for certain that young Cadogan West wasplaced on it."

　　"How could he be placed there?"

　　"That was the question which we had to answer. There is only onepossible way. You are aware that the Underground runs clear of tunnelsat some points in the West End. I had a vague memory that as I havetravelled by it I have occasionally seen windows just above my head.Now, suppose that a train halted under such a window, would there beany difficulty in laying a body upon the roof?"

　　"It seems most improbable."

　　"We must fall back upon the old axiom that when all othercontingencies fail, whatever remains, however improbable, must bethe truth. Here all other contingencies have failed. When I found thatthe leading international agent, who had just left London, lived ina row of houses which abutted upon the Underground, I was so pleasedthat you were a little astonished at my sudden frivolity.""Oh, that was it, was it?"

　　"Yes, that was it. Mr. Hugo Oberstein, Of 13 Caulfield Gardens,had become my objective. I began my operations at Gloucester RoadStation, where a very helpful official walked with me along thetrack and allowed me to satisfy myself not only that the back-stairwindows of Caulfield Gardens open on the line but the even moreessential fact that, owing to the intersection of one of the largerrailways, the Underground trains are frequently held motionless forsome minutes at that very spot."

　　"Splendid, Holmes! You have got it!"

　　"So far- so far, Watson. We advance, but the goal is afar. Well,having seen the back of Caulfield Gardens, I visited the front andsatisfied myself that the bird was indeed flown. It is aconsiderable house, unfurnished, so far as I could judge, in the upperrooms. Oberstein lived there with a single valet, who was probably aconfederate entirely in his confidence. We must bear in mind thatOberstein has gone to the Continent to dispose of his booty, but notwith any idea of flight; for he had no reason to fear a warrant, andthe idea of an amateur domiciliary visit would certainly never occurto him. Yet that is precisely what we are about to make.""Could we not get a warrant and legalize it?"

　　"Hardly on the evidence."

　　"What can we hope to do?"

　　"We cannot tell what correspondence may be there."

　　"I don't like it, Holmes."

　　"My dear fellow, you shall keep watch in the street. I'll do thecriminal part. It's not a time to stick at trifles. Think of Mycroft'snote, of the Admiralty, the Cabinet, the exalted person who waitsfor news. We are bound to go."

　　My answer was to rise from the table.

　　"You are right, Holmes. We are bound to go."

　　He sprang up and shook me by the hand.

　　"I knew you would not shrink at the last," said he, and for a momentI saw something in his eyes which was nearer to tenderness than Ihad ever seen. The next instant he was his masterful, practical selfonce more.

　　"It is nearly half a mile, but there is no hurry. Let us walk," saidhe. "Don't drop the instruments, I beg. Your arrest as a suspiciouscharacter would be a most unfortunate complication."

　　Caulfield Gardens was on of those lines of flat-faced pillared,and porticoed houses which are so prominent a product of the middleVictorian epoch in the West End of London. Next door there appeared tobe a children's party, for the merry buzz of young voices and theclatter of a piano resounded through the night. The fog still hungabout and screened us with its friendly shade. Holmes had lit hislantern and flashed it upon the massive door.

　　"This is a serious proposition," said he. "It is certainly bolted aswell as locked. We would do better in the area. There is anexcellent archway down yonder in case a too zealous policeman shouldintrude. Give me a hand, Watson, and I'll do the same for you."A minute later we were both in the area. Hardly had we reached thedark shadows before the step of the policeman was heard in the fogabove. As its soft rhythm died away, Holmes set to work upon the lowerdoor. I saw him stoop and strain until with a sharp crash it flewopen. We sprang through into the dark passage, closing the area doorbehind us. Holmes led the way up the curving, uncarpeted stair. Hislittle fan of yellow light shone upon a low window.

　　"Here we are, Watson- this must be the one." He threw it open, andas he did so there was a low, harsh murmur, growing steadily into aloud roar as a train dashed past us in the darkness. Holmes swepthis light along the window-sill. It was thickly coated with sootfrom the passing engines, but the black surface was blurred and rubbedin places.

　　"You can see where they rested the body. Halloa, Watson! what isthis? There can be no doubt that it is a blood mark." He waspointing to faint discolourations along the woodwork of the window."Here it is on the stone of the stair also. The demonstration iscomplete. Let us stay here until a train stops."

　　We had not long to wait. The very next train roared from thetunnel as before, but slowed in the open, and then, with a creaking ofbrakes, pulled up immediately beneath us. It was not four feet fromthe window-ledge to the roof of the carriages. Holmes softly closedthe window.

　　"So far we are justified," said he. "What do you think of it,Watson?"

　　"A masterpiece. You have never risen to a greater height.""I cannot agree with you there. From the moment that I conceived theidea of the body being upon the roof, which surely was not a veryabstruse one, all the rest was inevitable. If it were not for thegrave interests involved the affair up to this point would beinsignificant. Our difficulties are still before us. But perhaps wemay find something here which may help us."

　　We had ascended the kitchen stair and entered the suite of roomsupon the first floor. One was a dining-room, severely furnished andcontaining nothing of interest. A second was a bedroom, which alsodrew blank. The remaining room appeared more promising and mycompanion settled down to a systematic examination. It was litteredwith books and papers, and was evidently used as a study. Swiftlyand methodically Holmes turned over the contents of drawer afterdrawer and cupboard after cupboard, but no gleam of success came tobrighten his austere face. At the end of an hour he was no furtherthan when he started.

　　"The cunning dog has covered his tracks," said he. "He has leftnothing to incriminate him. His dangerous correspondence has beendestroyed or removed. This is our last chance."

　　It was a small tin cash-box which stood upon the writing-desk.Holmes pried it open with his chisel. Several rolls of paper werewithin, covered with figures and calculations, without any note toshow to what they referred. The recurring words, 'water pressure'and 'pressure to the square inch' suggested some possible relationto a submarine. Holmes tossed them all impatiently aside. There onlyremained an envelope with some small newspaper slips inside it. Heshook them out on the table, and at once I saw by his eager facethat his hopes had been raised.

　　"What's this, Watson? Eh? What's this? Record of a series ofmessages in the advertisements of a paper. Daily Telegraph agonycolumn by the print and paper. Right-hand top corner of a page. Nodates- but messages arrange themselves. This must be the first:"Hoped to hear sooner. Terms agreed to. Write fully to address givenon card.                                      "PIERROT."Next comes:

　　"Too complex for description. Must have full report. Stuff awaitsyou when goods delivered.                     "PIERROT."Then comes:

　　"Matter presses. Must withdraw offer unless contract completed. Makeappointment by letter. Will confirm by advertisement.

　　"PIERROT.

　　"Finally:

　　"Monday night after nine. Two taps. Only ourselves. Do not be sosuspicious. Payment in hard cash when goods delivered.

　　"PIERROT.

　　"A fairly complete record, Watson! If we could only get at the manat the other end!" He sat lost in thought, tapping his fingers onthe table. Finally he sprang to his feet.

　　"Well, perhaps it won't be so difficult, after all. There is nothingmore to be done here, Watson. I think we might drive round to theoffices of the Daily Telegraph, and so bring a good day's work to aconclusion."

　　Mycroft Holmes and Lestrade had come round by appointment afterbreakfast next day and Sherlock Holmes had recounted to them ourproceedings of the day before. The professional shook his head overour confessed burglary.

　　"We can't do these things in the force, Mr. Holmes," said he. "Nowonder you get results that are beyond us. But some of these daysyou'll go too far, and you'll find yourself and your friend introuble."

　　"For England, home and beauty- eh, Watson? Martyrs on the altar ofour country. But what do you think of it, Mycroft?"

　　"Excellent, Sherlock! Admirable! But what use will you make of it?"Holmes picked up the Daily Telegraph which lay upon the table."Have you seen Pierrot's advertisement to-day?"

　　"What? Another one?"

　　"Yes, here it is:

　　"To-night. Same hour. Same place. Two taps. Most vitallyimportant. Your own safety at stake.

　　"PIERROT.

　　"By George!" cried Lestrade. "If he answers that we've got him!""That was my idea when I put it in. I think if you could both makeit convenient to come with us about eight o'clock to Caulfield Gardenswe might possibly get a little nearer to a solution."

　　One of the most remarkable characteristics of Sherlock Holmes washis power of throwing his brain out of action and switching all histhoughts on to lighter things whenever he had convinced himself thathe could no longer work to advantage. I remember that during the wholeof that memorable day he lost himself in a monograph which he hadundertaken upon the Polyphonic Motets of Lassus. For my own part I hadnone of this power of detachment, and the day, in consequence,appeared to be interminable. The great national importance of theissue, the suspense in high quarters, the direct nature of theexperiment which we were trying- all combined to work upon my nerve.It was a relief to me when at last, after a light dinner, we set outupon our expedition. Lestrade and Mycroft met us by appointment at theoutside of Gloucester Road Station. The area door of Oberstein's househad been left open the night before, and it was necessary for me, asMycroft Holmes absolutely and indignantly declined to climb therailings, to pass in and open the hall door. By nine o'clock we wereall seated in the study, waiting patiently for our man.An hour passed and yet another. When eleven struck, the measuredbeat of the great church clock seemed to sound the dirge of our hopes.Lestrade and Mycroft were fidgeting in their seats and looking twice aminute at their watches. Holmes sat silent and composed, his eyelidshalf shut, but every sense on the alert. He raised his head with asudden jerk.

　　"He is coming," said he.

　　There had been a furtive step past the door. Now it returned. Weheard a shuffling sound outside, and then two sharp taps with theknocker. Holmes rose, motioning to us to remain seated. The gas in thehall was a mere point of light. He opened the outer door, and thenas a dark figure slipped past him he closed and fastened it. "Thisway!" we heard him say, and a moment later our man stood before us.Holmes had followed him closely, and as the man turned with a cry ofsurprise and alarm he caught him by the collar and threw him back intothe room. Before our prisoner had recovered his balance the door wasshut and Holmes standing with his back against it. The man glaredround him, staggered, and fell senseless upon the floor. With theshock, his broad-brimmed hat flew from his head, his cravat slippeddown from his lips, and there were the long light beard and thesoft, handsome delicate features of Colonel Valentine Walter.Holmes gave a whistle of surprise.

　　"You can write me down an ass this time, Watson," said he. "This wasnot the bird that I was looking for."

　　"Who is he?" asked Mycroft eagerly.

　　"The younger brother of the late Sir James Walter, the head of theSubmarine Department. Yes, yes; I see the fall of the cards. He iscoming to. I think that you had best leave his examination to me."We had carried the prostrate body to the sofa. Now our prisonersat up, looked round him with a horror-stricken face, and passed hishand over his forehead, like one who cannot believe his own senses."What is this?" he asked. "I came here to visit Mr. Oberstein.""Everything is known, Colonel Walter," said Holmes. "How anEnglish gentleman could behave in such a manner is beyond mycomprehension. But your whole correspondence and relations withOberstein are within our knowledge. So also are the circumstancesconnected with the death of young Cadogan West. Let me advise you togain at least the small credit for repentance and confession, sincethere are still some details which we can only learn from your lips."The man groaned and sank his face in his hands. We waited, but hewas silent.

　　"I can assure you," said Holmes, "that every essential is alreadyknown. We know that you were pressed for money; that you took animpress of the keys which your brother held; and that you entered intoa correspondence with Oberstein, who answered your letters through theadvertisement columns of the Daily Telegraph. We are aware that youwent down to the office in the fog on Monday night, but that youwere seen and followed by young Cadogan West, who had probably someprevious reason to suspect you. He saw your theft, but could notgive the alarm, as it was just possible that you were taking thepapers to your brother in London. Leaving all his private concerns,like the good citizen that he was, he followed you closely in thefog and kept at your heels until you reached this very house. There heintervened, and then it was, Colonel Walter, that to treason you addedthe more terrible crime of murder."

　　"I did not! I did not! Before God I swear that I did not!" cried ourwretched prisoner.

　　"Tell us, then, how Cadogan West met his end before you laid himupon the roof of a railway carriage."

　　"I will. I swear to you that I will. I did the rest. I confess it.It was just as you say. A Stock Exchange debt had to be paid. I neededthe money badly. Oberstein offered me five thousand. It was to savemyself from ruin. But as to murder, I am as innocent as you.""What happened, then?"

　　"He had his suspicions before, and he followed me as you describe. Inever knew it until I was at the very door. It was thick fog, andone could not see three yards. I had given two taps and Obersteinhad come to the door. The young man rushed up and demanded to knowwhat we were about to do with the papers. Oberstein had a shortlife-preserver. He always carried it with him. As West forced hisway after us into the house Oberstein struck him on the head. The blowwas a fatal one. He was dead within five minutes. There he lay inthe hall, and we were at our wit's end what to do. Then Obersteinhad this idea about the trains which halted under his back window. Butfirst he examined the papers which I had brought. He said that threeof them were essential, and that he must keep them. 'You cannot keepthem,' said I. 'There will be a dreadful row at Woolwich if they arenot returned.' 'I must keep them,' said he, 'for they are so technicalthat it is impossible in the time to make copies.' 'Then they must allgo back together tonight,' said I. He thought for a little, and thenhe cried out that he had it. 'Three I will keep,' said he. 'The otherswe will stuff into the pocket of this young man. When he is foundthe whole business will assuredly be put to his account. I could seeno other way out of it, so we did as he suggested. We waited half anhour at the window before a train stopped. It was so thick thatnothing could be seen, and we had no difficulty in lowering West'sbody on to the train. That was the end of the matter so far as I wasconcerned."

　　"And your brother?"

　　"He said nothing, but he had caught me once with his keys, and Ithink that he suspected. I read in his eves that he suspected. Asyou know, he never held up his head again."

　　There was silence in the room. It was broken by Mycroft Holmes."Can you not make reparation? It would ease your conscience, andpossibly your punishment."

　　"What reparation can I make?"

　　"Where is Oberstein with the papers?"

　　"I do not know."

　　"Did he give you no address?"

　　"He said that letters to the Hotel du Louvre, Paris, wouldeventually reach him."

　　"Then reparation is still within your power," said Sherlock Holmes."I will do anything I can. I owe this fellow no particulargood-will. He has been my ruin and my downfall.

　　"Here are paper and pen. Sit at this desk and write to my dictation.Direct the envelope to the address given. That is right. Now theletter:

　　Dear Sir:

　　With regard to our transaction, you will no doubt have observed bynow that one essential detail is missing. I have a tracing whichwill make it complete. This has involved me in extra trouble, however,and I must ask you for a further advance of five hundred pounds. Iwill not trust it to the post, nor will I take anything but gold ornotes. I would come to you abroad, but it would excite remark if Ileft the country at present. Therefore I shall expect to meet you inthe smoking-room of the Charing Cross Hotel at noon on Saturday.Remember that only English notes, or gold, will be taken.That will do very well. I shall be very much surprised if it doesnot fetch our man."

　　And it did! It is a matter of history- that secret history of anation which is often, so much more intimate and interesting thanits public chronicles- that Oberstein, eager to complete the coup ofhis lifetime, came to the lure and was safely engulfed for fifteenyears in a British prison. In his trunk were found the invaluableBruce-Partington plans, which he had put up for auction in all thenaval centres of Europe.

　　Colonel Walter died in prison towards the end of the second yearof his sentence. As to Holmes, he returned refreshed to hismonograph upon the Polyphonic Motets of Lassus, which has since beenprinted for private circulation, and is said by experts to be the lastword upon the subject. Some weeks afterwards I learned incidentallythat my friend spent a day at Windsor, whence he returned with aremarkably fine emerald tie-pin. When I asked him if he had bought it,he answered that it was a present from a certain gracious lady inwhose interests he had once been fortunate enough to carry out a smallcommission. He said no more; but I fancy that I could guess at thatlady's august name, and I have little doubt that the emerald pinwill forever recall to my friend's memory the adventure of theBruce-Partington plans.

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1893

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE CARDBOARD BOX

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　In choosing a few typical cases which illustrate the remarkablemental qualities of my friend, Sherlock Holmes, I have endeavoured, asfar as possible, to select those which presented the minimum ofsensationalism, while offering a fair field for his talents. It is,however, unfortunately impossible entirely to separate the sensationalfrom the criminal, and a chronicler is left in the dilemma that hemust either sacrifice details which are essential to his statement andso give a false impression of the problem, or he must use matter whichchance, and not choice, has provided him with. With this short prefaceI shall turn to my notes of what proved to be a strange, though apeculiarly terrible, chain of events.

　　It was a blazing hot day in August. Baker Street was like an oven,and the glare of the sunlight upon the yellow brickwork of the houseacross the road was painful to the eye. It was hard to believe thatthese were the same walls which loomed so gloomily through the fogs ofwinter. Our blinds were half-drawn, and Holmes lay curled upon thesofa, reading and re-reading a letter which he had received by themorning post. For myself, my term of service in India had trained meto stand heat better than cold, and a thermometer at ninety was nohardship. But the morning paper was uninteresting. Parliament hadrisen. Everybody was out of town, and I yearned for the glades ofthe New Forest or the shingle of Southsea. A depleted bank account hadcaused me to postpone my holiday, and as to my companion, neitherthe country nor the sea presented the slightest attraction to him.He loved to lie in the very centre of five millions of people, withhis filaments stretching out and running through them, responsive toevery little rumour or suspicion of unsolved crime. Appreciation ofnature found no place among his many gifts, and his only change waswhen he turned his mind from the evil-doer of the town to track downhis brother of the country.

　　Finding that Holmes was too absorbed for conversation I had tossedaside the barren paper, and leaning back in my chair I fell into abrown study. Suddenly my companion's voice broke in upon my thoughts:"You are right, Watson," said he. "It does seem a most

　　preposterous way of settling a dispute."

　　"Most preposterous!" I exclaimed, and then suddenly realizing how hehad echoed the inmost thought of my soul, I sat up in my chair andstared at him in blank amazement.

　　"What is this, Holmes?" I cried. "This is beyond anything which Icould have imagined."

　　He laughed heartily at my perplexity.

　　"You remember," said he, "that some little time ago when I readyou the passage in one of Poe's sketches in which a close reasonerfollows the unspoken thoughts of his companion, you were inclined totreat the matter as a mere tour-de-force of the author. On myremarking that I was constantly in the habit of doing the same thingyou expressed incredulity."

　　"Oh, no!"

　　"Perhaps not with your tongue, my dear Watson, but certainly withyour eyebrows. So when I saw you throw down your paper and enterupon a train of thought, I was very happy to have the opportunity ofreading it off, and eventually of breaking into it, as a proof thatI had been in rapport with you."

　　But I was still far from satisfied. "In the example which you readto me," said I, "the reasoner drew his conclusions from the actions ofthe man whom he observed. If I remember right, he stumbled over a heapof stones, looked up at the stars, and so on. But I have been seatedquietly in my chair, and what clues can I have given you?""You do yourself an injustice. The features are given to man asthe means by which he shall express his emotions, and yours arefaithful servants."

　　"Do you mean to say that you read my train of thoughts from myfeatures?"

　　"Your features and especially your eyes. Perhaps you cannot yourselfrecall how your reverie commenced?"

　　"No, I cannot."

　　"Then I will tell you. After throwing down your paper, which was theaction which drew my attention to you, you sat for half a minutewith a vacant expression. Then your eyes fixed themselves upon yournewly framed picture of General Gordon, and I saw by the alteration inyour face that a train of thought had been started. But it did notlead very far. Your eyes flashed across to the unframed portrait ofHenry Ward Beecher which stands upon the top of your books. Then youglanced up at the wall, and of course your meaning was obvious. Youwere thinking that if the portrait were framed it would just coverthat bare space and correspond with Gordon's picture over there.""You have followed me wonderfully!" I exclaimed.

　　"So far I could hardly have gone astray. But now your thoughtswent back to Beecher, and you looked hard across as if you werestudying the character in his features. Then your eyes ceased topucker, but you continued to look across, and your face wasthoughtful. You were recalling the incidents of Beecher's career. Iwas well aware that you could not do this without thinking of themission which he undertook on behalf of the North at the time of theCivil War, for I remember your expressing your passionateindignation at the way in which he was received by the moreturbulent of our people. You felt so strongly about it that I knew youcould not think of Beecher without thinking of that also. When amoment later I saw your eyes wander away from the picture, I suspectedthat your mind had now turned to the Civil War, and when I observedthat your lips set, your eyes sparkled, and your hands clenched Iwas positive that you were indeed thinking of the gallantry whichwas shown by both sides in that desperate struggle. But then, again,your face grew sadder; you shook your head. You were dwelling upon thesadness and horror and useless waste of life. Your hand stoletowards your own old wound and a smile quivered on your lips, whichshowed me that the ridiculous side of this method of settlinginternational questions had forced itself upon your mind. At thispoint I agreed with you that it was preposterous and was glad tofind that all my deductions had been correct."

　　"Absolutely!" said I. "And now that you have explained it, I confessthat I am as amazed as before."

　　"It was very superficial, my dear Watson, I assure you. I should nothave intruded it upon your attention had you not shown someincredulity the other day. But I have in my hands here a littleproblem which may prove to be more difficult of solution than my smallessay in thought reading. Have you observed in the paper a shortparagraph referring to the remarkable contents of a packet sentthrough the post to Miss Cushing, of Cross Street Croydon?""No, I saw nothing."

　　"Ah! then you must have overlooked it. Just toss it over to me. Hereit is, under the financial column. Perhaps you would be good enough toread it aloud."

　　I picked up the paper which he had thrown back to me and read theparagraph indicated. It was headed, "A Gruesome Packet.""Miss Susan Cushing, living at Cross Street, Croydon, has been madethe victim of what must be regarded as a peculiarly revoltingpractical joke unless some more sinister meaning should prove to beattached to the incident. At two o'clock yesterday afternoon a smallpacket, wrapped in brown paper, was handed in by the postman. Acardboard box was inside, which was filled with coarse salt. Onemptying this, Miss Cushing was horrified to find two human ears,apparently quite freshly severed. The box had been sent by parcel postfrom Belfast upon the morning before. There is no indication as to thesender, and the matter is the more mysterious as Miss Cushing, whois a maiden lady of fifty, has led a most retired life, and has so fewacquaintances or correspondents that it is a rare event for her toreceive anything through the post. Some years ago, however, when sheresided at Penge, she let apartments in her house to three youngmedical students, whom she was obliged to get rid of on account oftheir noisy and irregular habits. The police are of opinion thatthis outrage may have been perpetrated upon Miss Cushing by theseyouths, who owed her a grudge and who hoped to frighten her by sendingher these relics of the dissecting-rooms. Some probability is lentto the theory by the fact that one of these students came from thenorth of Ireland, and, to the best of Miss Cushing's belief, fromBelfast. In the meantime, the matter is being actively investigated,Mr. Lestrade, one of the very smartest of our detective officers,being in charge of the case."

　　"So much for the Daily Chronicle," said Holmes as I finishedreading. "Now for our friend Lestrade. I had a note from him thismorning, in which he says:

　　"I think that this case is very much in your line. We have everyhope of clearing the matter up, but we find a little difficulty ingetting anything to work upon. We have, of course, wired to theBelfast post-office, but a large number of parcels were handed in uponthat day, and they have no means of identifying this particular one,or of remembering the sender. The box is a half-pound box ofhoneydew tobacco and does not help us in any way. The medicalstudent theory still appears to me to be the most feasible, but if youshould have a few hours to spare I should be very happy to see you outhere. I shall be either at the house or in the police-station all day.What say you, Watson? Can you rise superior to the heat and run downto Croydon with me on the off chance of a case for your annals?""I was longing for something to do."

　　"You shall have it then. Ring for our boots and tell them to order acab. I'll be back in a moment when I have changed my dressing-gown andfilled my cigar-case."

　　A shower of rain fell while we were in the train, and the heat wasfar less oppressive in Croydon than in town. Holmes had sent on awire, so that Lestrade, as wiry, as dapper, and as ferret-like asever, was waiting for us at the station. A walk of five minutes tookus to Cross Street, where Miss Cushing resided.

　　It was a very long street of two-story brick houses, neat andprim, with whitened stone steps, and little groups of aproned womengossiping at the doors. Halfway down, Lestrade stopped and tapped at adoor, which was opened by a small servant girl. Miss Cushing wassitting in the front room, into which we were ushered. She was aplacid-faced woman, with large, gentle eyes, and grizzled hair curvingdown over her temples on each side. A worked antimacassar lay upon herlap and a basket of coloured silks stood upon a stool beside her."They are in the outhouse, those dreadful things," said she asLestrade entered. I wish that you would take them away altogether.""So I shall, Miss Cushing. I only kept them here until my friend,Mr. Holmes, should have seen them in your presence."

　　"Why in my presence, sir?"

　　"In case he wished to ask any questions."

　　"What is the use of asking me questions when I tell you I knownothing whatever about it?"

　　"Quite so, madam," said Holmes in his soothing way. "I have no doubtthat you have been annoyed more than enough already over thisbusiness."

　　"Indeed, I have, sir. I am a quiet woman and live a retired life. Itis something new for me to see my name in the papers and to find thepolice in my house. I won't have those things in here, Mr. Lestrade.If you wish to see them you must go to the outhouse."

　　It was a small shed in the narrow garden which ran behind the house.Lestrade went in and brought out a yellow cardboard box, with apiece of brown paper and some string. There was a bench at the endof the path, and we all sat down while Holmes examined, one by one,the articles which Lestrade had handed to him.

　　"The string is exceedingly interesting," he remarked, holding itup to the light and sniffing at it. "What do you make of thisstring, Lestrade?"

　　"It has been tarred."

　　"Precisely. It is a piece of tarred twine. You have also, nodoubt, remarked that Miss Cushing has cut the cord with a scissors, ascan be seen by the double fray on each side. This is of importance.""I cannot see the importance," said Lestrade.

　　"The importance lies in the fact that the knot is left intact, andthat this knot is of a peculiar character."

　　"It is very neatly tied. I had already made a note to that effect"said Lestrade complacently.

　　"So much for the string, then," said Holmes, smiling, "now for thebox wrapper. Brown paper, with a distinct smell of coffee. What didyou not observe it? I think there can be no doubt of it. Addressprinted in rather straggling characters: 'Miss S. Cushing, CrossStreet, Croydon.' Done with a broad-pointed pen, probably a J and withvery inferior ink. The word 'Croydon' has been originally spelled withan 'i,' which has been changed to 'y.' The parcel was directed,then, by a man- the printing is distinctly masculine- of limitededucation and unacquainted with the town of Croydon. So far, sogood! The box is a yellow, half-pound honeydew box, with nothingdistinctive save two thumb marks at the left bottom corner. It isfilled with rough salt of the quality used for preserving hides andother of the coarser commercial purposes. And embedded in it are thesevery singular enclosures."

　　He took out the two ears as he spoke, and laying a board acrosshis knee he examined them minutely, while Lestrade and I, bendingforward on each side of him, glanced alternately at these dreadfulrelics and at the thoughtful, eager face of our companion. Finallyhe returned them to the box once more and sat for a while in deepmeditation.

　　"You have observed, of course," said he at last, "that the earsare not a pair."

　　"Yes, I have noticed that. But if this were the practical joke ofsome students from the dissecting-rooms, it would be as easy forthem to send two odd ears as a pair.

　　"Precisely. But this is not a practical joke."

　　"You are sure of it?"

　　"The presumption is strongly against it. Bodies in the

　　dissecting-rooms are injected with preservative fluid. These ears bearno signs of this. They are fresh, too. They have been cut off with ablunt instrument, which would hardly happen if a student had doneit. Again, carbolic or rectified spirits would be the preservativeswhich would suggest themselves to the medical mind, certainly notrough salt. I repeat that there is no practical joke here, but that weare investigating a serious crime."

　　A vague thrill ran through me as I listened to my companion'swords and saw the stern gravity which had hardened his features.This brutal preliminary seemed to shadow forth some strange andinexplicable horror in the background. Lestrade, however, shook hishead like a man who is only half convinced.

　　"There are objections to the joke theory, no doubt" said he, "butthere are much stronger reasons against the other. We know that thiswoman has led a most quiet and respectable life at Penge and herefor the last twenty years. She has hardly been away from her homefor a day during that time. Why on earth, then, should any criminalsend her the proofs of his guilt, especially as, unless she is amost consummate actress, she understands quite as little of the matteras we do?"

　　"That is the problem which we have to solve," Holmes answered,"and for my part I shall set about it by presuming that my reasoningis correct and that a double murder has been committed. One of theseears is a woman's, small, finely formed, and pierced for an earring.The other is a man's, sun-burned, discoloured, and also pierced for anearring. These two people are presumably dead, or we should have heardtheir story before now. To-day is Friday. The packet was posted onThursday morning. The tragedy, then, occurred on Wednesday or Tuesday,or earlier. If the two people were murdered, who but their murdererwould have sent this sign of his work to Miss Cushing? We may takeit that the sender of the packet is the man whom we want. But hemust have some strong reason for sending Miss Cushing this packet.What reason then? It must have been to tell her that the deed wasdone! or to pain her, perhaps. But in that case she knows who it is.Does she know? I doubt it. If she knew, why should she call the policein? She might have buried the ears, and no one would have been thewiser. That is what she would have done if she had wished to shieldthe criminal. But if she does not wish to shield him she would givehis name. There is a tangle here which needs straightening out." Hehad been talking in a high, quick voice, staring blankly up over thegarden fence, but now he sprang briskly to his feet and walked towardsthe house.

　　"I have a few questions to ask Miss Cushing," said he.

　　"In that case I may leave you here" said Lestrade, "for I haveanother small business on hand. I think that I have nothing further tolearn from Miss Cushing. You will find me at the police-station.""We shall look in on our way to the train," answered Holmes. Amoment later he and I were back in the front room, where the impassivelady was still quietly working away at her antimacassar. She put itdown on her lap as we entered and looked at us with her frank,searching blue eyes.

　　"I am convinced, sir," she said, "that this matter is a mistake, andthat the parcel was never meant for me at all. I have said thisseveral times to the gentleman from Scotland Yard, but he simplylaughs at me. I have not an enemy in the world, as far as I know, sowhy should anyone play me such a trick?"

　　"I am coming to be of the same opinion, Miss Cushing," saidHolmes, taking a seat beside her. "I think that it is more thanprobable-" he paused, and I was surprised, on glancing round to seethat he was staring with singular intentness at the lady's profile.Surprise and satisfaction were both for an instant to be read upon hiseager face, though when she glanced round to find out the cause of hissilence he had become as demure as ever. I stared hard myself at herflat, grizzled hair, her trim cap, her little gilt earrings, herplacid features; but I could see nothing which could account for mycompanion's evident excitement.

　　"There were one or two questions-"

　　"Oh, I am weary of questions!" cried Miss Cushing impatiently."You have two sisters, I believe."

　　"How could you know that?"

　　"I observed the very instant that I entered the room that you have aportrait group of three ladies upon the mantelpiece, one of whom isundoubtedly yourself, while the others are so exceedingly like youthat there could be no doubt of the relationship."

　　"Yes, you are quite right. Those are my sisters, Sarah and Mary.""And here at my elbow is another portrait taken at Liverpool, ofyour younger sister, in the company of a man who appears to be asteward by his uniform. I observe that she was unmarried at the time.""You are very quick at observing."

　　"That is my trade."

　　"Well, you are quite right. But she was married to Mr. Browner a fewdays afterwards. He was on the South American line when that wastaken, but he was so fond of her that he couldn't abide to leave herfor so long, and he got into the Liverpool and London boats.""Ah, the Conqueror, perhaps?"

　　"No, the May Day, when last I heard. Jim came down here to see meonce. That was before he broke the pledge, but afterwards he wouldalways take drink when he was ashore, and a little drink would sendhim stark, staring mad. Ah! it was a bad day that ever he took a glassin his hand again. First he dropped me, then he quarrelled with Sarah,and now that Mary has stopped writing we don't know how things aregoing with them."

　　It was evident that Miss Cushing had come upon a subject on whichshe felt very deeply. Like most people who lead a lonely life, she wasshy at first, but ended by becoming extremely communicative. Shetold us many details about her brother-in-law the steward, and thenwandering off on the subject of her former lodgers, the medicalstudents, she gave us a long account of their delinquencies, withtheir names and those of their hospitals. Holmes listenedattentively to everything, throwing in a question from time to time."About your second sister, Sarah," said he. "I wonder, since you areboth maiden ladies, that you do not keep house together.""Ah! you don't know Sarah's temper or you would wonder no more. Itried it when I came to Croydon, and we kept on until about two monthsago, when we had to part. I don't want to say a word against my ownsister, but she was always meddlesome and hard to please, was Sarah.""You say that she quarrelled with your Liverpool relations.""Yes, and they were the best of friends at one time. Why, she wentup there to live in order to be near them. And now she has no wordhard enough for Jim Browner. The last six months that she was here shewould speak of nothing but his drinking and his ways. He had caughther meddling, I suspect, and given her a bit of his mind, and that wasthe start of it."

　　"Thank you, Miss Cushing," said Holmes, rising and bowing. "Yoursister Sarah lives, I think you said, at New Street, Wallington?Good-bye, and I am very sorry that you have been troubled over acase with which, as you say, you have nothing whatever to do."There was a cab passing as we came out, and Holmes hailed it."How far to Wallington?" he asked.

　　"Only about a mile, sir."

　　"Very good. jump in, Watson. We must strike while the iron is hot.Simple as the case is, there have been one or two very instructivedetails in connection with it. Just pull up at a telegraph office asyou pass, cabby."

　　Holmes sent off a short wire and for the rest of the drive layback in the cab, with his hat tilted over his nose to keep the sunfrom his face. Our driver pulled up at a house which was not unlikethe one which we had just quitted. My companion ordered him to wait,and had his hand upon the knocker, when the door opened and a graveyoung gentleman in black, with a very shiny hat, appeared on the step."Is Miss Cushing at home?" asked Holmes.

　　"Miss Sarah Cushing is extremely ill," said he. "She has beensuffering since yesterday from brain symptoms of great severity. Asher medical adviser, I cannot possibly take the responsibility ofallowing anyone to see her. I should recommend you to call again inten days." He drew on his gloves, closed the door, and marched offdown the street.

　　"Well, if we can't we can't," said Holmes, cheerfully.

　　"Perhaps she could not or would not have told you much.""I did not wish her to tell me anything. I only wanted to look ather. However, I think that I have got all that I want. Drive us tosome decent hotel, cabby, where we may have some lunch, and afterwardswe shall drop down upon friend Lestrade at the police-station."We had a pleasant little meal together, during which Holmes wouldtalk about nothing but violins, narrating with great exultation how hehad purchased his own Stradivarius, which was worth at least fivehundred guineas, at a Jew broker's in Tottenham Court Road forfifty-five shillings. This led him to Paganini, and we sat for an hourover a bottle of claret while he told me anecdote after anecdote ofthat extraordinary man. The afternoon was far advanced and the hotglare had softened into a mellow glow before we found ourselves at thepolice-station. Lestrade was waiting for us at the door."A telegram for you, Mr. Holmes," said he.

　　"Ha! It is the answer!" He tore it open, glanced his eyes over it,and crumpled it into his pocket. "That's all right" said he."Have you found out anything?"

　　"I have found out everything!"

　　"What!" Lestrade stared at him in amazement. "You are joking.""I was never more serious in my life. A shocking crime has beencommitted, and I think I have now laid bare every detail of it.""And the criminal?"

　　Holmes scribbled a few words upon the back of one of his visitingcards and threw it over to Lestrade.

　　"That is the name," he said. "You cannot effect an arrest untilto-morrow night at the earliest. I should prefer that you do notmention my name at all in connection with the case, as I choose tobe only associated with those crimes which present some difficultyin their solution. Come on, Watson." We strode off together to thestation, leaving Lestrade still staring with a delighted face at thecard which Holmes had thrown him.

　　"The case," said Sherlock Holmes as we chatted over our cigarsthat night in our rooms at Baker Street, "is one where, as in theinvestigations which you have chronicled under the names of 'A Studyin Scarlet' and of 'The Sign of Four,' we have been compelled toreason backward from effects to causes. I have written to Lestradeasking him to supply us with the details which are now wanting, andwhich he will only get after he has secured his man. That he may besafely trusted to do, for although he is absolutely devoid ofreason, he is as tenacious as a bulldog when he once understandswhat he has to do, and, indeed, it is just this tenacity which hasbrought him to the top at Scotland Yard."

　　"Your case is not complete, then?" I asked.

　　"It is fairly complete in essentials. We know who the author ofthe revolting business is, although one of the victims still escapesus. Of course, you have formed your own conclusions."

　　"I presume that this Jim Browner, the steward of a Liverpool boat,is the man whom you suspect?"

　　"Oh! it is more than a suspicion."

　　"And yet I cannot see anything save very vague indications.""On the contrary, to my mind nothing could be more clear. Let me runover the principal steps. We approached the case, you remember, withan absolutely blank mind, which is always an advantage. We hadformed no theories. We were simply there to observe and to drawinferences from our observations. What did we see first? A very placidand respectable lady, who seemed quite innocent of any secret, and aportrait which showed me that she had two younger sisters. Itinstantly flashed across my mind that the box might have been meantfor one of these. I set the idea aside as one which could be disprovedor confirmed at our leisure. Then we went to the garden, as youremember, and we saw the very singular contents of the little yellowbox.

　　"The string was of the quality which is used by sailmakers aboardship, and at once a whiff of the sea was perceptible in ourinvestigation. When I observed that the knot was one which ispopular with sailors, that the parcel had been posted at a port, andthat the male ear was pierced for an earring which is so much morecommon among sailors than landsmen, I was quite certain that an theactors in the tragedy were to be found among our seafaring classes."When I came to examine the address of the packet I observed that itwas to Miss S. Cushing. Now, the oldest sister would, of course, beMiss Cushing, and although her initial was 'S' it might belong toone of the others as well. In that case we should have to commence ourinvestigation from a fresh basis altogether. I therefore went into thehouse with the intention of clearing up this point. I was about toassure Miss Cushing that I was convinced that a mistake had beenmade when you may remember that I came suddenly to a stop. The factwas that I had just seen something which filled me with surprise andat the same time narrowed the field of our inquiry immensely."As a medical man, you are aware, Watson, that there is no part ofthe body which varies so much as the human ear. Each ear is as arule quite distinctive and differs from all other ones. In lastyears Anthropological Journal you will find two short monographsfrom my pen upon the subject. I had, therefore, examined the ears inthe box with the eyes of an expert and had carefully noted theiranatomical peculiarities. Imagine my surprise, then, when on lookingat Miss Cushing I perceived that her ear corresponded exactly with thefemale ear which I had just inspected. The matter was entirelybeyond coincidence. There was the same shortening of the pinna, thesame broad curve of the upper lobe, the same convolution of theinner cartilage. In all essentials it was the same ear."Of course I at once saw the enormous importance of the observation.It was evident that the victim was a blood relation, and probably avery close one. I began to talk to her about her family, and youremember that she at once gave us some exceedingly valuable details."In the first place, her sisters name was Sarah, and her address haduntil recently been the same, so that it was quite obvious how themistake had occurred and for whom the packet was meant. Then weheard of this steward, married to the third sister, and learned thathe had at one time been so intimate with Miss Sarah that she hadactually gone up to Liverpool to be near the Browners, but a quarrelhad afterwards divided them. This quarrel had put a stop to allcommunications for some months, so that if Browner had occasion toaddress a packet to Miss Sarah, he would undoubtedly have done so toher old address.

　　"And now the matter had begun to straighten itself out

　　wonderfully. We had learned of the existence of this steward, animpulsive man, of strong passions- you remember that he threw upwhat must have been a very superior berth in order to be nearer to hiswife- subject, too, to occasional fits of hard drinking. We had reasonto believe that his wife had been murdered, and that a man- presumablya seafaring man- had been murdered at the same time. Jealousy, ofcourse, at once suggests itself as the motive for the crime. And whyshould these proofs of the deed be sent to Miss Sarah Cushing?Probably because during her residence in Liverpool she had some handin bringing about the events which led to the tragedy. You willobserve that this line of boats calls at Belfast Dublin, andWaterford; so that, presuming that Browner had committed the deedand had embarked at once upon his steamer, the May Day, Belfastwould be the first place at which he could post his terrible packet."A second solution was at this stage obviously possible, andalthough I thought it exceedingly unlikely, I was determined toelucidate it before going further. An unsuccessful lover might havekilled Mr. and Mrs. Browner, and the male ear might have belonged tothe husband. There were many grave objections to this theory, but itwas conceivable. I therefore sent off a telegram to my friend Algar,of the Liverpool force, and asked him to find out if Mrs. Browner wereat home, and if Browner had departed in the May Day. Then we went onto Wallington to visit Miss Sarah.

　　"I was curious, in the first place, to see how far the family earhad been reproduced in her. Then, of course, she might give us veryimportant information, but I was not sanguine that she would. She musthave heard of the business the day before, since all Croydon wasringing with it, and she alone could have understood for whom thepacket was meant. If she had been willing to help justice she wouldprobably have communicated with the police already. However, it wasclearly our duty to see her, so we went. We found that the news of thearrival of the packet- for her illness dated from that time- hadsuch an effect upon her as to bring on brain fever. It was clearerthan ever that she understood its full significance, but equally clearthat we should have to wait some time for any assistance from her."However, we were really independent of her help. Our answers werewaiting for us at the police-station, where I had directed Algar tosend them. Nothing could be more conclusive. Mrs. Browner's househad been closed for more than three days, and the neighbours were ofopinion that she had gone south to see her relatives. It had beenascertained at the shipping offices that Browner had left aboard ofthe May Day, and I calculate that she is due in the Thames tomorrownight. When he arrives he will be met by the obtuse but resoluteLestrade, and I have no doubt that we shall have all our detailsfilled in."

　　Sherlock Holmes was not disappointed in his expectations. Two dayslater he received a bulky envelope, which contained a short notefrom the detective, and a typewritten document which covered severalpages of foolscap.

　　"Lestrade has got him all right," said Holmes, glancing up at me."Perhaps it would interest you to hear what he says.

　　My Dear Holmes:

　　"In accordance with the scheme which we had formed in order totest our theories" ["the 'we' is rather fine, Watson, is it not?"]"I went down to the Albert Dock yesterday at 6 P.M., and boarded theS.S. May Day, belonging to the Liverpool, Dublin, and London SteamPacket Company. On inquiry, I found that there was a steward onboard of the name of James Browner and that he had acted during thevoyage in such an extraordinary manner that the captain had beencompelled to relieve him of his duties. On descending to his berth,I found him seated upon a chest with his head sunk upon his hands,rocking himself to and fro. He is a big, powerful chap,clean-shaven, and very swarthy- something like Aldridge, who helped usin the bogus laundry affair. He jumped up when he heard my business,and I had my whistle to my lips to call a couple of river police,who were round the corner, but he seemed to have no heart in him,and he held out his hands quietly enough for the darbies. We broughthim along to the cells, and his box as well for we thought there mightbe something incriminating; but, bar a big sharp knife such as mostsailors have, we got nothing for our trouble. However, we find that weshall want no more evidence, for on being brought before the inspectorat the station he asked leave to make a statement which was, ofcourse, taken down, just as he made it, by our shorthand man. We hadthree copies typewritten, one of which I enclose. The affair proves,as I always thought it would, to be an extremely simple one, but Iam obliged to you for assisting me in my investigation. With kindregards,

　　"Yours very truly,

　　"G. LESTRADE.

　　"Hum! The investigation really was a very simple one," remarkedHolmes, "but I don't think it struck him in that light when he firstcalled us in. However, let us see what Jim Browner has to say forhimself. This is his statement as made before Inspector Montgomeryat the Shadwell Police Station, and it has the advantage of beingverbatim."

　　"'Have I anything to say? Yes, I have a deal to say. I have tomake a clean breast of it all. You can hang me, or you can leave mealone. I don't care a plug which you do. I tell you I've not shut aneye in sleep since I did it, and I don't believe I ever will againuntil I get past all waking. Sometimes it's his face, but mostgenerally it's hers. I'm never without one or the other before me.He looks frowning and black-like, but she has a kind o' surpriseupon her face. Ay, the white lamb, she might well be surprised whenshe read death on a face that had seldom looked anything but love uponher before.

　　"'But it was Sarah's fault and may the curse of a broken man put ablight on her and set the blood rotting in her veins! It's not thatI want to clear myself. I know that I went back to drink, like thebeast that I was. But she would have forgiven me; she would have stuckas close to me as a rope to a block if that woman had never darkenedour door. For Sarah Cushing loved me- that's the root of the business-she loved me until all her love turned to poisonous hate when she knewthat I thought more of my wife's footmark in the mud than I did of herwhole body and soul.

　　"'There were three sisters altogether. The old one was just a goodwoman, the second was a devil, and the third was an angel. Sarah wasthirty-three, and Mary was twenty-nine when I married. We were just ashappy as the day was long when we set up house together, and in allLiverpool there was no better woman than my Mary. And then we askedSarah up for a week, and the week grew into a month, and one thing ledto another, until she was just one of ourselves.

　　"'I was blue ribbon at that time, and we were putting a little moneyby, and all was as bright as a new dollar. My God, whoever wouldhave thought that it could have come to this? Whoever would havedreamed it?

　　"'I used to be home for the week-ends very often, and sometimes ifthe ship were held back for cargo I would have a whole week at a time,and in this way I saw a deal of my sister-in-law, Sarah. She was afine tall woman, black and quick and fierce, with a proud way ofcarrying her head, and a glint from her eye like a spark from a flint.But when little Mary was there I had never a thought of her, andthat I swear as I hope for God's mercy.

　　"'It had seemed to me sometimes that she liked to be alone withme, or to coax me out for a walk with her, but I had never thoughtanything of that. But one evening my eyes were opened. I had come upfrom the ship and found my wife out, but Sarah at home. "Where'sMary?" I asked. "Oh, she has gone to pay some accounts." I wasimpatient and paced up and down the room. "Can't you be happy for fiveminutes without Mary, Jim?" says she. "It's a bad compliment to methat you can't be contented with my society for so short a time.""That's all right, my lass," said I, putting out my hand towards herin a kindly way, but she had it in both hers in an instant, and theyburned as if they were in a fever. I looked into her eyes and I readit all there. There was no need for her to speak, nor for me either. Ifrowned and drew my hand away. Then she stood by my side in silencefor a bit, and then put up her hand and patted me on the shoulder."Steady old Jim!" said she, and with a kind o' mocking laugh, sherun out of the room.

　　"Well, from that time Sarah hated me with her whole heart andsoul, and she is a woman who can hate, too. I was a fool to let her goon biding with us- a besotted fool- but I never said a word to Mary,for I knew it would grieve her. Things went on much as before, butafter a time I began to find that there was a bit of a change inMary herself. She had always been so trusting and so innocent, but nowshe became queer and suspicious, wanting to know where I had beenand what I had been doing, and whom my letters were from, and what Ihad in my pockets, and a thousand such follies. Day by day she grewqueerer and more irritable, and we had ceaseless rows about nothing. Iwas fairly puzzled by it all. Sarah avoided me now, but she and Marywere just inseparable. I can see now how she was plotting and schemingand poisoning my wife's mind against me, but I was such a blind beetlethat I could not understand it at the time. Then I broke my blueribbon and began to drink again, but I think I should not have done itif Mary had been the same as ever. She had some reason to be disgustedwith me now, and the gap between us began to be wider and wider. Andthen this Alec Fairbairn chipped in, and things became a thousandtimes blacker.

　　"'It was to see Sarah that he came to my house first, but soon itwas to see us, for he was a man with winning ways, and he made friendswherever he went. He was a dashing, swaggering chap, smart and curled,who had seen half the world and could talk of what he had seen. He wasgood company, I won't deny it, and he had wonderful polite ways withhim for a sailor man, so that I think there must have been a time whenhe knew more of the poop than the forecastle. For a month he was inand out of my house, and never once did it cross my mind that harmmight come of his soft tricky ways. And then at last something made mesuspect and from that day my peace was gone forever.

　　"'It was only a little thing, too. I had come into the parlourunexpected, and as I walked in at the door I saw a light of welcome onmy wife's face. But as she saw who it was it faded again, and sheturned away with a look of disappointment. That was enough for me.There was no one but Alec Fairbairn whose step she could have mistakenfor mine. If I could have seen him then I should have killed him,for I have always been like a madman when my temper gets loose. Marysaw the devil's light in my eyes, and she ran forward with her handson my sleeve. "Don't Jim, don't!" says she. "Where's Sarah?" Iasked. "In the kitchen," says she. "Sarah," says I as I went in, "thisman Fairbairn is never to darken my door again." "Why not?" saysshe. "Because I order it." "Oh!" says she, "if my friends are not goodenough for this house, then I am not good enough for it either.""You can do what you like," says I, "but if Fairbairn shows his facehere again I'll send you one of his ears for a keepsake." She wasfrightened by my face, I think, for she never answered a word, and thesame evening she left my house.

　　"'Well, I don't know now whether it was pure devilry on the partof this woman, or whether she thought that she could turn me againstmy wife by encouraging her to misbehave. Anyway, she took a house justtwo streets off and let lodgings to sailors. Fairbairn used to staythere, and Mary would go round to have tea with her sister and him.How often she went I don't know, but I followed her one day, and asI broke in at the door Fairbairn got away over the back garden wall,like the cowardly skunk that he was. I swore to my wife that I wouldkill her if I found her in his company again, and I led her backwith me, sobbing and trembling, and as white as a piece of paper.There was no trace of love between us any longer. I could see that shehated me and feared me, and when the thought of it drove me todrink, then she despised me as well.

　　"'Well, Sarah found that she could not make a living in Liverpool,so she went back, as I understand, to live with her sister in Croydon,and things jogged on much the same as ever at home. And then came thislast week and all the misery and ruin.

　　"'It was in this way. We had gone on the May Day for a roundvoyage of seven days, but a hogshead got loose and started one ofour plates, so that we had to put back into port for twelve hours. Ileft the ship and came home, thinking what a surprise it would befor my wife, and hoping that maybe she would be glad to see me sosoon. The thought was in my head as I turned into my own street and atthat moment a cab passed me, and there she was, sitting by the side ofFairbairn, the two chatting and laughing, with never a thought forme as I stood watching them from the footpath.

　　"'I tell you, and I give you my word for it, that from that moment Iwas not my own master, and it is all like a dim dream when I look backon it. I had been drinking hard of late, and the two things togetherfairly turned my brain. There's something throbbing in my head now,like a docker's hammer, but that morning I seemed to have allNiagara whizzing and buzzing in my ears.

　　"'Well, I took to my heels, and I ran after the cab. I had a heavyoak stick in my hand, and I tell you I saw red from the first, butas I ran I got cunning, too, and hung back a little to see themwithout being seen. They pulled up soon at the railway station.There was a good crowd round the booking-office, so I got quiteclose to them without being seen. They took tickets for NewBrighton. So did I, but I got in three carriages behind them. Whenwe reached it they walked along the Parade, and I was never morethan a hundred yards from them. At last I saw them hire a boat andstart for a row, for it was a very hot day, and they thought, nodoubt, that it would be cooler on the water.

　　"It was just as if they had been given into my hands. There was abit of a haze, and you could not see more than a few hundred yards.I hired a boat for myself, and I pulled after them. I could see theblur of their craft, but they were going nearly as fast as I, and theymust have been a long mile from the shore before I caught them up. Thehaze was like a curtain all round us, and there were we three in themiddle of it. My God, shall I ever forget their faces when they sawwho was in the boat that was closing in upon them? She screamed out.He swore like a madman and jabbed at me with an oar, for he musthave seen death in my eyes. I got past it and got one in with my stickthat crushed his head like an egg. I would have spared her, perhaps,for all my madness, but she threw her arms round him, crying out tohim, and calling him "Alec." I struck again, and she lay stretchedbeside him. I was like a wild beast then that had tasted blood. IfSarah had been there, by the Lord, she should have joined them. Ipulled out my knife, and- well, there! I've said enough. It gave mea kind of savage joy when I thought how Sarah would feel when shehad such sign of what her meddling had brought about. Then I tiedthe bodies into the boat, stove a plank, and stood by until they hadsunk. I knew very well that the owner would think that they had losttheir bearings and had drifted off out to sea. I cleaned myself up,got back to land, and joined my ship without a soul having a suspicionof what had passed. That night I made up the packet for Sarah Cushing,and next day I sent it from Belfast.

　　"'There you have the whole truth of it. You can hang me, or dowhat you like with me, but you cannot punish me as I have beenpunished already. I cannot shut my eyes but I see those two facesstaring at me- staring at me as they stared when my boat broke throughthe haze. I killed them quick, but they are killing me slow; and ifI have another night of it I shall be either, mad or dead beforemorning. You won't put me alone into a cell, sir? For pity's sakedon't, and may you be treated in your day of agony as you treat menow."

　　"What is the meaning of it Watson?, said Holmes solemnly as helaid down the paper. "What object is served by this circle of miseryand violence and fear? It must tend to some end, or else ouruniverse is ruled by chance, which is unthinkable. But what end? Thereis the great standing perennial problem to which human reason is asfar from an answer as ever."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1892

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE COPPER BEECHES

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　The Adventure of the Copper Beeches

　　"To the man who loves art for its own sake," remarked SherlockHolmes, tossing aside the advertisement sheet of the DailyTelegraph, "it is frequently in its least important and lowliestmanifestations that the keenest pleasure is to be derived. It ispleasant to me to observe, Watson, that you have so far grasped thistruth that in these little records of our cases which you have beengood enough to draw up, and, I am bound to say, occasionally toembellish, you have given prominence not so much to the many causescelebres and sensational trials in which I have figured but ratherto those incidents which may have been trivial in themselves, butwhich have given room for those faculties of deduction and oflogical synthesis which I have made my special province.""And yet," said I, smiling, "I cannot quite hold myself absolvedfrom the charge of sensationalism which has been urged against myrecords."

　　"You have erred, perhaps," he observed, taking up a glowing cinderwith the tongs and lighting with it the long cherry-wood pipe whichwas wont to replace his clay when he was in a disputatious rather thana meditative mood-"you have erred perhaps in attempting to putcolour and life into each of your statements instead of confiningyourself to the task of placing upon record that severe reasoning fromcause to effect which is really the only notable feature about thething."

　　"It seems to me that I have done you full justice in the matter,"I remarked with some coldness, for I was repelled by the egotism whichI had more than once observed to be a strong factor in my friend'ssingular character.

　　"No, it is not selfishness or conceit," said he, answering, as washis wont, my thoughts rather than my words. "If I claim full justicefor my art, it is because it is an impersonal thing-a thing beyondmyself. Crime is common. Logic is rare. Therefore it is upon the logicrather than upon the crime that you should dwell. You have degradedwhat should have been a course of lectures into a series of tales."It was a cold morning of the early spring, and we sat afterbreakfast on either side of a cheery fire in the old room at BakerStreet. A thick fog rolled down between the lines of dun-colouredhouses, and the opposing windows loomed like dark, shapeless blursthrough the heavy yellow wreaths. Our gas was lit and shone on thewhite cloth and glimmer of china and metal, for the table had not beencleared yet. Sherlock Holmes had been silent all the morning,dipping continuously into the advertisement columns of a succession ofpapers until at last, having apparently given up his search, he hademerged in no very sweet temper to lecture me upon my literaryshortcomings.

　　"At the same time," he remarked after a pause, during which he hadsat puffing at his long pipe and gazing down into the fire, "you canhardly be open to a charge of sensationalism, for out of these caseswhich you have been so kind as to interest yourself in, a fairproportion do not treat of crime, in its legal sense, at all. Thesmall matter in which I endeavoured to help the King of Bohemia, thesingular experience of Miss Mary Sutherland, the problem connectedwith the man with the twisted lip, and the incident of the noblebachelor, were all matters which are outside the pale of the law.But in avoiding the sensational, I fear that you may have borderedon the trivial."

　　"The end may have been so," I answered, "but the methods I hold tohave been novel and of interest."

　　"Pshaw, my dear fellow, what do the public, the great unobservantpublic, who could hardly tell a weaver by his tooth or a compositor byhis left thumb, care about the finer shades of analysis and deduction!But, indeed, if you are trivial, I cannot blame you, for the days ofthe great cases are past. Man, or at least criminal man, has lostall enterprise and originality. As to my own little practice, it seemsto be degenerating into an agency for recovering lost lead pencils andgiving advice to young ladies from boarding-schools. I think that Ihave touched bottom at last, however. This note I had this morningmarks my zero-point, I fancy. Read it!" He tossed a crumpled letteracross to me.

　　It was dated from Montague Place upon the preceding evening, and ranthus:

　　DEAR MR. HOLMES:

　　I am very anxious to consult you as to whether I should or shouldnot accept a situation which has been offered to me as governess. Ishall call at half-past ten to-morrow if I do not inconvenience you.Yours faithfully,

　　VIOLET HUNTER.

　　"Do you know the young lady?" I asked.

　　"Not I."

　　"It is half-past ten now."

　　"Yes, and I have no doubt that is her ring."

　　"It may turn out to be of more interest than you think. You rememberthat the affair of the blue carbuncle, which appeared to be a merewhim at first, developed into a serious investigation. It may be so inthis case, also."

　　"Well, let us hope so. But our doubts will very soon be solved,for here, unless I am much mistaken, is the person in question."As he spoke the door opened and a young lady entered the room. Shewas plainly but neatly dressed, with a bright, quick face, freckledlike a plover's egg, and with the brisk manner of a woman who hashad her own way to make in the world.

　　"You will excuse my troubling you, I am sure," said she, as mycompanion rose to greet her, "but I have had a very strangeexperience, and as I have no parents or relations of any sort fromwhom I could ask advice, I thought that perhaps you would be kindenough to tell me what I should do."

　　"Pray take a seat, Miss Hunter. I shall be happy to do anything thatI can to serve you."

　　I could see that Holmes was favourably impressed by the manner andspeech of his new client. He looked her over in his searching fashion,and then composed himself, with his lids drooping and hisfinger-tips together, to listen to her story.

　　"I have been a governess for five years," said she, "in the familyof Colonel Spence Munro, but two months ago the colonel received anappointment at Halifax, in Nova Scotia, and took his children overto America with him, so that I found myself without a situation. Iadvertised, and I answered advertisements, but without success. Atlast the little money which I had saved began to run short, and Iwas at my wit's end as to what I should do.

　　"There is a well-known agency for governesses in the West End calledWestaway's, and there I used to call about once a week in order to seewhether anything had turned up which might suit me. Westaway was thename of the founder of the business, but it is really managed byMiss Stoper. She sits in her own little office, and the ladies who areseeking employment wait in an anteroom, and are then shown in one byone, when she consults her ledgers and sees whether she has anythingwhich would suit them.

　　"Well, when I called last week I was shown into the little office asusual, but found that Miss Stoper was not alone. A prodigiouslystout man with a very smiling face and a great heavy chin which rolleddown in fold upon fold over his throat sat at her elbow with a pair ofglasses on his nose, looking very earnestly at the ladies who entered.As I came in he gave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly toMiss Stoper.

　　"'That will do,' said he; 'I could not ask for anything better.Capital! capital!'

　　He seemed quite enthusiastic and rubbed his hands together in themost genial fashion. He was such a comfortable-looking man that it wasquite a pleasure to look at him.

　　"'You are looking for a situation, miss?' he asked.

　　"'Yes, sir.'

　　"'As governess?'

　　"'Yes, sir.'

　　"'And what salary do you ask?'

　　"'I had L4 a month in my last place with Colonel Spence Munro.'"'Oh, tut, tut! sweating-rank sweating!' he cried, throwing hisfat hands out into the air like a man who is in a boiling passion.'How could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with suchattractions and accomplishments?'

　　"'My accomplishments, sir, may be less than you imagine,' said I. 'Alittle French, a little German, music, and drawing-'

　　"'Tut, tut!' he cried. 'This is all quite beside the question. Thepoint is, have you or have you not the bearing and deportment of alady? There it is in a nutshell. If you have not, you are not fittedfor the rearing of a child who may some day play a considerable partin the history of the country. But if you have, why, then, how couldany gentleman ask you to condescend to accept anything under the threefigures? Your salary with me, madam, would commence at L100 a year.'"You may imagine, Mr. Holmes, that to me, destitute as I was, suchan offer seemed almost too good to be true. The gentleman, however,seeing perhaps the look of incredulity upon my face, opened apocket-book and took out a note.

　　"'It is also my custom,' said he, smiling in the most pleasantfashion until his eyes were just two little shining slits amid thewhite creases of his face, 'to advance to my young ladies half theirsalary beforehand, so that they may meet any little expenses oftheir journey and their wardrobe.'

　　"It seemed to me that I had never met so fascinating and sothoughtful a man. As I was already in debt to my tradesmen, theadvance was a great convenience, and Yet there was something unnaturalabout the whole transaction which made me wish to know a little morebefore I quite committed myself.

　　"'May I ask where you live, sir?' said I.

　　"'Hampshire. Charming rural place. The Copper Beeches, five miles onthe far side of Winchester. It is the most lovely country, my dearyoung lady, and the dearest old country-house.'

　　"'And my duties, sir? I should be glad to know what they would be.'"'One child-one dear little romper just six years old. Oh, if youcould see him killing cockroaches with a slipper! Smack! smack! smack!Three gone before you could wink!' He leaned back in his chair andlaughed his eyes into his head again.

　　"I was a little startled at the nature of the child's amusement, butthe father's laughter made me think that perhaps he was joking."'My sole duties, then,' I asked, 'are to take charge of a singlechild?'

　　"'No, no, not the sole, not the sole, my dear young lady,' he cried.'Your duty would be, as I am sure your good sense would suggest, toobey any little commands my wife might give, provided always that theywere such commands as a lady might with propriety obey. You see nodifficulty, heh?'

　　"'I should be happy to make myself useful.'

　　"'Quite so. In dress now, for example. We are faddy people, youknow-faddy but kind-hearted. If you were asked to wear any dress whichwe might give you, you would not object to our little whim. Heh?'"'No,' said I, considerably astonished at his words.

　　"'Or to sit here, or sit there, that would not be offensive to you?'"'Oh, no.'

　　"'Or to cut your hair quite short before you come to us?'"I could hardly believe my ears. As you may observe, Mr. Holmes,my hair is somewhat luxuriant, and of a rather peculiar tint ofchestnut. It has been considered artistic. I could not dream ofsacrificing it in this offhand fashion.

　　"'I am afraid that that is quite impossible,' said I. He had beenwatching me eagerly out of his small eyes, and I could see a shadowpass over his face as I spoke.

　　"'I am afraid that it is quite essential,' said he. 'It is alittle fancy of my wife's, and ladies' fancies, you know, madam,ladies' fancies must be consulted. And so you won't cut your hair?'"'No, sir, I really could not,' I answered firmly.

　　"'Ah, very well; then that quite settles the matter. It is a pity,because in other respects you would really have done very nicely. Inthat case, Miss Stoper, I had best inspect a few more of your youngladies.'

　　"The manageress had sat all this while busy with her paperswithout a word to either of us, but she glanced at me now with so muchannoyance upon her face that I could not help suspecting that shehad lost a handsome commission through my refusal.

　　"'Do you desire your name to be kept upon the books?' she asked."'If you please, Miss Stoper.'

　　"'Well really, it seems rather useless, since you refuse the mostexcellent offers in this fashion,' said she sharply. 'You can hardlyexpect us to exert ourselves to find another such opening for you.Good-day to you, Miss Hunter.' She struck a gong upon the table, and Iwas shown out by the page.

　　"Well, Mr. Holmes, when I got back to my lodgings and found littleenough in the cupboard, and two or three bills upon the table, I beganto ask myself whether I had not done a very foolish thing. Afterall, if these people had strange fads and expected obedience on themost extraordinary matters, they were at least ready to pay fortheir eccentricity. Very few governesses in England are getting L100 ayear. Besides, what use was my hair to me? Many people are improved bywearing it short, and perhaps I should be among the number. Next day Iwas inclined to think that I had made a mistake, and by the dayafter I was sure of it. I had almost overcome my pride so far as to goback to the agency and inquire whether the place was still open when Ireceived this letter from the gentleman himself. I have it here, and Iwill read it to you:

　　"The Copper Beeches, near Winchester.

　　"DEAR MISS HUNTER:

　　"Miss Stoper has very kindly given me your address, and I write fromhere to ask you whether you have reconsidered your decision. My wifeis very anxious that you should come, for she has been muchattracted by my description of you. We are willing to give L30 aquarter, or L120 a year, so as to recompense you for any littleinconvenience which our fads may cause you. They are not veryexacting, after all. My wife is fond of a particular shade of electricblue, and would like you to wear such a dress indoors in themorning. You need not, however, go to the expense of purchasing one,as we have one belonging to my dear daughter Alice (now inPhiladelphia), which would, I should think, fit you very well. Then,as to sitting here or there, or amusing yourself in any mannerindicated, that need cause you no inconvenience. As regards your hair,it is no doubt a pity, especially as I could not help remarking itsbeauty during our short interview, but I am afraid that I mustremain firm upon this point, and I only hope that the increased salarymay recompense you for the loss. Your duties, as far as the child isconcerned, are very light. Now do try to come, and I shall meet youwith the dog-cart at Winchester. Let me know your train."Yours faithfully,

　　"JEPHRO RUCASTLE."

　　"That is the letter which I have just received, Mr. Holmes, and mymind is made up that I will accept it. I thought, however, that beforetaking the final step I should like to submit the whole matter to yourconsideration."

　　"Well, Miss Hunter, if your mind is made up, that settles thequestion," said Holmes, smiling.

　　"But you would not advise me to refuse?"

　　"I confess that it is not the situation which I should like to see asister of mine apply for."

　　"What is the meaning of it all, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"Ah, I have no data. I cannot tell. Perhaps you have yourself formedsome opinion?"

　　"Well, there seems to me to be only one possible solution. Mr.Rucastle seemed to be a very kind, good-natured man. Is it notpossible that his wife is a lunatic, that he desires to keep thematter quiet for fear she should be taken to an asylum, and that hehumours her fancies in every way in order to prevent an outbreak?""That is a possible solution-in fact, as matters stand, it is themost probable one. But in any case it does not seem to be a nicehousehold for a young lady."

　　"But the money, Mr. Holmes, the money!"

　　"Well, yes, of course the pay is good-too good. That is what makesme uneasy. Why should they give you L120 a year, when they couldhave their pick for L40? There must be some strong reason behind.""I thought that if I told you the circumstances you would understandafterwards if I wanted your help. I should feel so much stronger ifI felt that you were at the back of me."

　　"Oh, you may carry that feeling away with you. I assure you thatyour little problem promises to be the most interesting which has comemy way for some months. There is something distinctly novel about someof the features. If you should find yourself in doubt or in danger-""Danger! What danger do you foresee?"

　　Holmes shook his head gravely. "It would cease to be a danger ifwe could define it," said he. "But at any time, day or night, atelegram would bring me down to your help."

　　"That is enough." She rose briskly from her chair with the anxietyall swept from her face. "I shall go down to Hampshire quite easy inmy mind now. I shall write to Mr. Rucastle at once, sacrifice mypoor hair to-night, and start for Winchester to-morrow." With a fewgrateful words to Holmes she bade us both good-night and bustled offupon her way.

　　"At least," said I as we heard her quick, firm steps descendingthe stairs, "she seems to be a young lady who is very well able totake care of herself."

　　"And she would need to be," said Holmes gravely. "I am much mistakenif we do not hear from her before many days are past."

　　It was not very long before my friend's prediction was fulfilled.A fortnight went by, during which I frequently found my thoughtsturning in her direction and wondering what strange side-alley ofhuman experience this lonely woman had strayed into. The unusualsalary, the curious conditions, the light duties, all pointed tosomething abnormal, though whether a fad or a plot, or whether the manwere a philanthropist or a villain, it was quite beyond my powers todetermine. As to Holmes, I observed that he sat frequently for half anhour on end, with knitted brows and an abstracted air, but he sweptthe matter away with a wave of his hand when I mentioned it. "Data!data! data!" he cried impatiently. "I can't make bricks without clay."And yet he would always wind up by muttering that no sister of hisshould ever have accepted such a situation.

　　The telegram which we eventually received came late one night justas I was thinking of turning in and Holmes was settling down to one ofthose all-night chemical researches which he frequently indulged in,when I would leave him stooping over a retort and a test-tube at nightand find him in the same position when I came down to breakfast in themorning. He opened the yellow envelope, and then, glancing at themessage, threw it across to me.

　　"Just look up the trains in Bradshaw," said he, and turned back tohis chemical studies.

　　The summons was a brief and urgent one.

　　Please be at the Black Swan Hotel at Winchester at middayto-morrow [it said]. Do come! I am at my wit's end.

　　HUNTER.

　　"Will you come with me?" asked Holmes, glancing up.

　　"I should wish to."

　　"Just look it up, then."

　　"There is a train at half-past nine," said I, glancing over myBradshaw. "It is due at Winchester at 11:3O."

　　"That will do very nicely. Then perhaps I had better postpone myanalysis of the acetones, as we may need to be at our best in themorning."

　　By eleven o'clock the next day we were well upon our way to theold English capital. Holmes had been buried in the morning papersall the way down, but after we had passed the Hampshire border hethrew them down and began to admire the scenery. It was an idealspring day, a light blue sky, flecked with little fleecy whiteclouds drifting across from west to east. The sun was shining verybrightly, and yet there was an exhilarating nip in the air, whichset an edge to a man's energy. All over the countryside, away to therolling hills around Aldershot, the little red and gray roofs of thefarm-steadings peeped out from amid the light green of the newfoliage.

　　"Are they not fresh and beautiful?" I cried with all theenthusiasm of a man fresh from the fogs of Baker Street.But Holmes shook his head gravely.

　　"Do you know, Watson," said he, "that it is one of the curses of amind with a turn like mine that I must look at everything withreference to my own special subject. You look at these scatteredhouses, and you are impressed by their beauty. I look at them, and theonly thought which comes to me is a feeling of their isolation andof the impunity with which crime may be committed there.""Good heavens!" I cried. "Who would associate crime with thesedear old homesteads?"

　　"They always fill me with a certain horror. It is my belief, Watson,founded upon my experience, that the lowest and vilest alleys inLondon do not present a more dreadful record of sin than does thesmiling and beautiful countryside."

　　"You horrify me!"

　　"But the reason is very obvious. The pressure of public opinioncan do in the town what the law cannot accomplish. There is no lane sovile that the scream of a tortured child, or the thud of adrunkard's blow, does not beget sympathy and indignation among theneighbours, and then the whole machinery of justice is ever so closethat a word of complaint can set it going, and there is but a stepbetween the crime and the dock. But look at these lonely houses,each in its own fields, filled for the most part with poor ignorantfolk who know little of the law. Think of the deeds of hellishcruelty, the hidden wickedness which may go on, year in, year out,in such places, and none the wiser. Had this lady who appeals to usfor help gone to live in Winchester, I should never have had a fearfor her. It is the five miles of country which makes the danger.Still, it is clear that she is not personally threatened.""No. If she can come to Winchester to meet us she can get away.""Quite so. She has her freedom."

　　"What can be the matter, then? Can you suggest no explanation?""I have devised seven separate explanations, each of which wouldcover the facts as far as we know them. But which of these iscorrect can only be determined by the fresh information which we shallno doubt find waiting for us. Well, there is the tower of thecathedral, and we shall soon learn all that Miss Hunter has to tell."The Black Swan is an inn of repute in the High Street, at nodistance from the station, and there we found the young lady waitingfor us. She had engaged a sitting-room, and our lunch awaited usupon the table.

　　"I am so delighted that you have come," she said earnestly. "It isso very kind of you both; but indeed I do not know what I should do.Your advice will be altogether invaluable to me."

　　"Pray tell us what has happened to you."

　　"I will do so, and I must be quick, for I have promised Mr. Rucastleto be back before three. I got his leave to come into town thismorning, though he little knew for what purpose."

　　"Let us have everything in its due order." Holmes thrust his longthin legs out towards the fire and composed himself to listen."In the first place, I may say that I have met, on the whole, withno actual ill-treatment from Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle. It is only fair tothem to say that. But I cannot understand them, and I am not easy inmy mind about them."

　　"What can you not understand?"

　　"Their reasons for their conduct. But you shall have it all justas it occurred. When I came down, Mr. Rucastle met me here and droveme in his dog-cart to the Copper Beeches. It is, as he said,beautifully situated, but it is not beautiful in itself, for it is alarge square block of a house, whitewashed, but all stained andstreaked with damp and bad weather. There are grounds round it,woods on three sides, and on the fourth a field which slopes down tothe Southampton highroad, which curves past about a hundred yards fromthe front door. This ground in front belongs to the house, but thewoods all round are part of Lord Southerton's preserves. A clump ofcopper beeches immediately in front of the hall door has given itsname to the place.

　　"I was driven over by my employer, who was as amiable as ever, andwas introduced by him that evening to his wife and the child. Therewas no truth, Mr. Holmes, in the conjecture which seemed to us to beprobable in your rooms at Baker Street. Mrs. Rucastle is not mad. Ifound her to be a silent, pale-faced woman, much younger than herhusband, not more than thirty, I should think, while he can hardlybe less than forty-five. From their conversation I have gatheredthat they have been married about seven years, that he was awidower, and that his only child by the first wife was the daughterwho has gone to Philadelphia. Mr. Rucastle told me in private that thereason why she had left them was that she had an unreasoningaversion to her stepmother. As the daughter could not have been lessthan twenty, I can quite imagine that her position must have beenuncomfortable with her father's young wife.

　　"Mrs. Rucastle seemed to me to be colourless in mind as well as infeature. She impressed me neither favourably nor the reverse. Shewas a nonentity. It was easy to see that she was passionatelydevoted both to her husband and to her little son. Her light gray eyeswandered continually from one to the other, noting every little wantand forestalling it if possible. He was kind to her also in his bluff,boisterous fashion, and on the whole they seemed to be a happy couple.And yet she had some secret sorrow, this woman. She would often belost in deep thought, with the saddest look upon her face. More thanonce I have surprised her in tears. I have thought sometimes that itwas the disposition of her child which weighed upon her mind, for Ihave never met so utterly spoiled and so ill-natured a littlecreature. He is small for his age, with a head which is quitedisproportionately large. His whole life appears to be spent in analternation between savage fits of passion and gloomy intervals ofsulking. Giving pain to any creature weaker than himself seems to behis one idea of amusement, and he shows quite remarkable talent inplanning the capture of mice, little birds, and insects. But I wouldrather not talk about the creature, Mr. Holmes, and, indeed, he haslittle to do with my story."

　　"I am glad of all details," remarked my friend, "whether they seemto you to be relevant or not."

　　"I shall try not to miss anything of importance. The oneunpleasant thing about the house, which struck me at once, was theappearance and conduct of the servants. There are only two, a manand his wife. Toller, for that is his name, is a rough, uncouth man,with grizzled hair and whiskers, and a perpetual smell of drink. Twicesince I have been with them he has been quite drunk, and yet Mr.Rucastle seemed to take no notice of it. His wife is a very tall andstrong woman with a sour face, as silent as Mrs. Rucastle and muchless amiable. They are a most unpleasant couple, but fortunately Ispend most of my time in the nursery and my own room, which are nextto each other in one corner of the building.

　　"For two days after my arrival at the Copper Beeches my life wasvery quiet; on the third, Mrs. Rucastle came down just after breakfastand whispered something to her husband.

　　"'Oh, yes,' said he, turning to me, 'we are very much obliged toyou, Miss Hunter, for falling in with our whims so far as to cutyour hair. I assure you that it has not detracted in the tiniestiota from your appearance. We shall now see how the electric-bluedress will become you. You will find it laid out upon the bed inyour room, and if you would be so good as to put it on we shouldboth be extremely obliged.'

　　"The dress which I found waiting for me was of a peculiar shade ofblue. It was of excellent material, a sort of beige but it boreunmistakable signs of having been worn before. It could not havebeen a better fit if I had been measured for it. Both Mr. and Mrs.Rucastle expressed a delight at the look of it, which seemed quiteexaggerated in its vehemence. They were waiting for me in thedrawing-room, which is a very large room, stretching along theentire front of the house, with three long windows reaching down tothe floor. A chair had been placed close to the central window, withits back turned towards it. In this I was asked to sit, and then Mr.Rucastle, walking up and down on the other side of the room, beganto tell me a series of the funniest stories that I have everlistened to. You cannot imagine how comical he was, and I laugheduntil I was quite weary. Mrs. Rucastle, however, who has evidentlyno sense of humour, never so much as smiled, but sat with her hands inher lap, and a sad, anxious look upon her face. After an hour or so,Mr. Rucastle suddenly remarked that it was time to commence the dutiesof the day, and that I might change my dress and go to little Edwardin the nursery.

　　"Two days later this same performance was gone through under exactlysimilar circumstances. Again I changed my dress, again I sat in thewindow, and again I laughed very heartily at the funny stories ofwhich my employer had an immense repertoire, and which he toldinimitably. Then he handed me a yellow-backed novel, and moving mychair a little sideways, that my own shadow might not fall upon thepage, he begged me to read aloud to him. I read for about ten minutes,beginning in the heart of a chapter, and then suddenly, in themiddle of a sentence, he ordered me to cease and to change my dress."You can easily imagine, Mr. Holmes, how curious I became as to whatthe meaning of this extraordinary performance could possibly be.They were always very careful, I observed, to turn my face away fromthe window, so that I became consumed with the desire to see whatwas going on behind my back. At first it seemed to be impossible,but I soon devised a means. My hand-mirror had been broken, so a happythought seized me, and I concealed a piece of the glass in myhandkerchief. On the next occasion, in the midst of my laughter, I putmy handkerchief up to my eyes, and was able with a little managementto see all that there was behind me. I confess that I wasdisappointed. There was nothing. At least that was my firstimpression. At the second glance, however, I perceived that therewas a man standing in the Southampton Road, a small bearded man in agray suit, who seemed to be looking in my direction. The road is animportant highway, and there are usually people there. This man,however, was leaning against the railings which bordered our field andwas looking earnestly up. I lowered my handkerchief and glanced atMrs. Rucastle to find her eyes fixed upon me with a most searchinggaze. She said nothing, but I am convinced that she had divined that Ihad a mirror in my hand and had seen what was behind me. She rose atonce.

　　"'Jephro,' said she, 'there is an impertinent fellow upon the roadthere who stares up at Miss Hunter.'

　　"'No friend of yours, Miss Hunter?' he asked.

　　"'No, I know no one in these parts.'

　　"'Dear me! How very impertinent! Kindly turn round and motion to himto go away.'

　　"'Surely it would be better to take no notice.'

　　"'No, no, we should have him loitering here always. Kindly turnround and wave him away like that.'

　　"I did as I was told, and at the same instant Mrs. Rucastle drewdown the blind. That was a week ago, and from that time I have not satagain in the window, nor have I worn the blue dress, nor seen theman in the road."

　　"Pray continue," said Holmes. "Your narrative promises to be amost interesting one."

　　"You will find it rather disconnected, I fear, and there may proveto be little relation between the different incidents of which Ispeak. On the very first day that I was at the Copper Beeches, Mr.Rucastle took me to a small outhouse which stands near the kitchendoor. As we approached it I heard the sharp rattling of a chain, andthe sound as of a large animal moving about.

　　"Look in here!" said Mr. Rucastle, showing me a slit between twoplanks. "Is he not a beauty?"

　　"I looked through and was conscious of two glowing eyes, and of avague figure huddled up in the darkness.

　　"Don't be frightened," said my employer, laughing at the start whichI had given. "It's only Carlo, my mastiff. I call him mine, but reallyold Toller, my groom, is the only man who can do anything with him. Wefeed him once a day, and not too much then, so that he is always askeen as mustard. Toller lets him loose every night, and God help thetrespasser whom he lays his fangs upon. For goodness' sake don't youever on any pretext set your foot over the threshold at night, forit's as much as your life is worth."

　　"The warning was no idle one, for two nights later I happened tolook out of my bedroom window about two o'clock in the morning. It wasa beautiful moonlight night, and the lawn in front of the house wassilvered over and almost as bright as day. I was standing, rapt in thepeaceful beauty of the scene, when I was aware that something wasmoving under the shadow of the copper beeches. As it emerged intothe moonshine I saw what it was. It was a giant dog, as large as acalf, tawny tinted, with hanging jowl, black muzzle, and hugeprojecting bones. It walked slowly across the lawn and vanished intothe shadow upon the other side. That dreadful sentinel sent a chill tomy heart which I do not think that any burglar could have done."And now I have a very strange experience to tell you. I had, as youknow, cut off my hair in London, and I had placed it in a great coilat the bottom of my trunk. One evening, after the child was in bed,I began to amuse myself by examining the furniture of my room and byrearranging my own little things. There was an old chest of drawers inthe room, the two upper ones empty and open, the lower one locked. Ihad filled the first two with my linen, and as I had still much topack away I was naturally annoyed at not having the use of the thirddrawer. It struck me that it might have been fastened by a mereoversight, so I took out my bunch of keys and tried to open it. Thevery first key fitted to perfection, and I drew the drawer open. Therewas only one thing in it, but I am sure that you would never guesswhat it was. It was my coil of hair.

　　"I took it up and examined it. It was of the same peculiar tint, andthe same thickness. But then the impossibility of the thing obtrudeditself upon me. How could my hair have been locked in the drawer? Withtrembling hands I undid my trunk, turned out the contents, and drewfrom the bottom my own hair. I laid the two tresses together, and Iassure you that they were identical. Was it not extraordinary?Puzzle as I would, I could make nothing at all of what it meant. Ireturned the strange hair to the drawer, and I said nothing of thematter to the Rucastles as I felt that I had put myself in the wrongby opening a drawer which they had locked.

　　"I am naturally observant, as you may have remarked, Mr. Holmes, andI soon had a pretty good plan of the whole house in my head. There wasone wing, however, which appeared not to be inhabited at all. A doorwhich faced that which led into the quarters of the Tollers openedinto this suite, but it was invariably locked. One day, however, asI ascended the stair, I met Mr. Rucastle coming out through this door,his keys in his hand, and a look on his face which made him a verydifferent person to the round, jovial man to whom I was accustomed.His cheeks were red, his brow was all crinkled with anger, and theveins stood out at his temples with passion. He locked the door andhurried past me without a word or a look.

　　"This aroused my curiosity, so when I went out for a walk in thegrounds with my charge, I strolled round to the side from which Icould see the windows of this part of the house. There were four ofthem in a row, three of which were simply dirty, while the fourthwas shuttered up. They were evidently all deserted. As I strolled upand down, glancing at them occasionally, Mr. Rucastle came out tome, looking as merry and jovial as ever.

　　"'Ah!' said he, 'you must not think me rude if I passed youwithout a word, my dear young lady. I was preoccupied with businessmatters.'

　　"I assured him that I was not offended. 'By the way,' said I, 'youseem to have quite a suite of spare rooms up there, and one of themhas the shutters up.'

　　"He looked surprised and, as it seemed to me, a little startled atmy remark.

　　"'Photography is one of my hobbies,' said he. 'I have made my darkroom up there. But, dear me! what an observant young lady we have comeupon. Who would have believed it?' He spoke in a jesting tone, butthere was no jest in his eyes as he looked at me. I read suspicionthere and annoyance, but no jest.

　　"Well, Mr. Holmes, from the moment that I understood that therewas something about that suite of rooms which I was not to know, I wasall on fire to go over them. It was not mere curiosity, though Ihave my share of that. It was more a feeling of duty-a feeling thatsome good might come from my penetrating to this place. They talk ofwoman's instinct; perhaps it was woman's instinct which gave me thatfeeling. At any rate, it was there, and I was keenly on the lookoutfor any chance to pass the forbidden door.

　　"It was only yesterday that the chance came. I may tell you that,besides Mr. Rucastle, both Toller and his wife find something to do inthese deserted rooms, and I once saw him carrying a large blacklinen bag with him through the door. Recently he has been drinkinghard, and yesterday evening he was very drunk; and when I cameupstairs there was the key in the door. I have no doubt at all that hehad left it there. Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle were both downstairs, and thechild was with them, so that I had an admirable opportunity. Iturned the key gently in the lock, opened the door, and slippedthrough.

　　"There was a little passage in front of me, unpapered anduncarpeted, which turned at a right angle at the farther end. Roundthis corner were three doors in a line, the first and third of whichwere open. They each led into an empty room, dusty and cheerless, withtwo windows in the one and one in the other, so thick with dirt thatthe evening light glimmered dimly through them. The centre door wasclosed, and across the outside of it had been fastened one of thebroad bars of an iron bed, padlocked at one end to a ring in the wall,and fastened at the other with stout cord. The door itself waslocked as well, and the key was not there. This barricaded doorcorresponded clearly with the shuttered window outside, and yet Icould see by the glimmer from beneath it that the room was not indarkness. Evidently there was a skylight which let in light fromabove. As I stood in the passage gazing at the sinister door andwondering what secret it might veil, I suddenly heard the sound ofsteps within the room and saw a shadow pass backward and forwardagainst the little slit of dim light which shone out from under thedoor. A mad, unreasoning terror rose up in me at the sight, Mr.Holmes. My overstrung nerves failed me suddenly, and I turned andran-ran as though some dreadful hand were behind me clutching at theskirt of my dress. I rushed down the passage, through the door, andstraight into the arms of Mr. Rucastle, who was waiting outside."'So,' said he, smiling, 'it was you, then. I thought that it mustbe when I saw the door open.'

　　"'Oh, I am so frightened!' I panted.

　　"'My dear young lady! my dear young lady!'-you cannot think howcaressing and soothing his manner was-;'and what has frightened you,my dear lady?'

　　"But his voice was just a little too coaxing. He overdid it. I waskeenly on my guard against him.

　　'I was foolish enough to go into the empty wing,' I answered. 'Butit is so lonely and eerie in this dim light that I was frightenedand ran out again. Oh, it is so dreadfully still in there!'"'Only that?' said he, looking at me keenly.

　　"'Why, what did you think?' I asked.

　　"'Why do you think that I lock this door?'

　　"'I am sure that I do not know.'

　　"'It is to keep people out who have no business there. Do yousee?' He was still smiling in the most amiable manner.

　　"'I am sure if I had known-'

　　"'Well, then, you know now. And if you ever put your foot overthat threshold again'-here in an instant the smile hardened into agrin of rage, and he glared down at me with the face of ademon-'I'll throw you to the mastiff.'

　　"I was so terrified that I do not know what I did. I suppose thatI must have rushed past him into my room. I remember nothing until Ifound myself lying on my bed trembling all over. Then I thought ofyou, Mr. Holmes. I could not live there longer without some advice.I was frightened of the house, of the man, of the woman, of theservants, even of the child. They were all horrible to me. If Icould only bring you down all would be well. Of course I might havefled from the house, but my curiosity was almost as strong as myfears. My mind was soon made up. I would send you a wire. I put onmy hat and cloak, went down to the office, which is about half amile from the house, and then returned, feeling very much easier. Ahorrible doubt came into my mind as I approached the door lest the dogmight be loose, but I remembered that Toller had drunk himself intoa state of insensibility that evening, and I knew that he was the onlyone in the household who had any influence with the savage creature,or who would venture to set him free. I slipped in and lay awakehalf the night in my joy at the thought of seeing you. I had nodifficulty in getting leave to come into Winchester this morning,but I must be back before three o'clock, for Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle aregoing on a visit, and will be away all the evening, so that I mustlook after the child. Now I have told you all my adventures, Mr.Holmes, and I should be very glad if you could tell me what it allmeans, and, above all, what I should do."

　　Holmes and I had listened spellbound to this extraordinary story. Myfriend rose now and paced up and down the room, his hands in hispockets, and an expression of the most profound gravity upon his face."Is Toller still drunk?" he asked.

　　"Yes. I heard his wife tell Mrs. Rucastle that she could donothing with him."

　　"That is well. And the Rucastles go out to-night?"

　　"Yes."

　　"Is there a cellar with a good strong lock?"

　　"Yes, the wine-cellar."

　　"You seem to me to have acted all through this matter like a verybrave and sensible girl, Miss Hunter. Do you think that you couldperform one more feat? I should not ask it of you if I did not thinkyou a quite exceptional woman."

　　"I will try. What is it?"

　　"We shall be at the Copper Beeches by seven o'clock, my friend andI. The Rucastles will be gone by that time, and Toller will, wehope, be incapable. There only remains Mrs. Toller, who might give thealarm. If you could send her into the cellar on some errand, andthen turn the key upon her, you would facilitate matters immensely.""I will do it."

　　"Excellent! We shall then look thoroughly into the affair. Of coursethere is only one feasible explanation. You have been brought there topersonate someone, and the real person is imprisoned in thischamber. That is obvious. As to who this prisoner is, I have nodoubt that it is the daughter, Miss Alice Rucastle, if I rememberright, who was said to have gone to America. You were chosen,doubtless, as resembling her in height, figure, and the colour of yourhair. Hers had been cut off, very possibly in some illness throughwhich she has passed, and so, of course, yours had to be sacrificedalso. By a curious chance you came upon her tresses. The man in theroad was undoubtedly some friend of hers-possibly her fiance-and nodoubt, as you wore the girl's dress and were so like her, he wasconvinced from your laughter, whenever he saw you, and afterwards fromyour gesture, that Miss Rucastle was perfectly happy, and that sheno longer desired his attentions. The dog is let loose at night toprevent him from endeavouring to communicate with her. So much isfairly clear. The most serious point in the case is the disposition ofthe child."

　　"What on earth has that to do with it?" I ejaculated.

　　"My dear Watson, you as a medical man are continually gaininglight as to the tendencies of a child by the study of the parents.Don't you see that the converse is equally valid. I have frequentlygained my first real insight into the character of parents by studyingtheir children. This child's disposition is abnormally cruel, merelyfor cruelty's sake, and whether he derives this from his smilingfather, as I should suspect, or from his mother, it bodes evil for thepoor girl who is in their power."

　　"I am sure that you are right Mr. Holmes," cried our client. "Athousand things come back to me which make me certain that you havehit it. Oh, let us lose not an instant in bringing help to this poorcreature."

　　"We must be circumspect for we are dealing with a very cunningman. We can do nothing until seven o'clock. At that hour we shall bewith you, and it will not be long before we solve the mystery."We were as good as our word, for it was just seven when we reachedthe Copper Beeches, having put up our trap at a waysidepublic-house. The group of trees, with their dark leaves shininglike burnished metal in the light of the setting sun, weresufficient to mark the house even had Miss Hunter not been standingsmiling on the door-step.

　　"Have you managed it?" asked Holmes.

　　A loud thudding noise came from somewhere downstairs. "That isMrs. Toller in the cellar," said she. "Her husband lies snoring on thekitchen rug. Here are his keys, which are the duplicates of Mr.Rucastle's."

　　"You have done well indeed!" cried Holmes with enthusiasm. "Now leadthe way, and we shall soon see the end of this black business."We passed up the stair, unlocked the door, followed on down apassage, and found ourselves in front of the barricade which MissHunter had described. Holmes cut the cord and removed the transversebar. Then he tried the various keys in the lock, but withoutsuccess. No sound came from within, and at the silence Holmes's faceclouded over.

　　"I trust that we are not too late," said he. "I think, MissHunter, that we had better go in without you. Now, Watson, put yourshoulder to it, and we shall see whether we cannot make our way in."It was an old rickety door and gave at once before our unitedstrength. Together we rushed into the room. It was empty. There was nofurniture save a little pallet bed, a small table, and a basketfulof linen. The skylight above was open, and the prisoner gone."There has been some villainy here," said Holmes; "this beauty hasguessed Miss Hunter's intentions and has carried his victim off.""But how?"

　　"Through the skylight. We shall soon see how he managed it." Heswung himself up onto the roof. "Ah, yes," he cried, "here's the endof a long light ladder against the eaves. That is how he did it.""But it is impossible," said Miss Hunter; "the ladder was notthere when the Rucastles went away.

　　"He has come back and done it. I tell you that he is a clever anddangerous man. I should not be very much surprised if this were hewhose step I hear now upon the stair. I think, Watson, that it wouldbe as well for you to have your pistol ready."

　　The words were hardly out of his mouth before a man appeared atthe door of the room, a very fat and burly man, with a heavy stickin his hand. Miss Hunter screamed and shrunk against the wall at thesight of him, but Sherlock Holmes sprang forward and confronted him."You villain!" said he, "where's your daughter?"

　　The fat man cast his eyes round, and then up at the open skylight."It is for me to ask you that," he shrieked, "you thieves! Spies andthieves! I have caught you, have I? You are in my power. I'll serveyou!" He turned and clattered down the stairs as hard as he could go."He's gone for the dog!" cried Miss Hunter.

　　"I have my revolver," said I.

　　"Better close the front door," cried Holmes, and we all rusheddown the stairs together. We had hardly reached the hall when we heardthe baying of a hound, and then a scream of agony, with a horribleworrying sound which it was dreadful to listen to. An elderly man witha red face and shaking limbs came staggering out at a side door."My God" he cried. "Someone has loosed the dog. He's not been fedfor two days. Quick, quick, or we'll be too late!"

　　Holmes and I rushed out and round the angle of the house, withToller hurrying behind us. There was the huge famished brute, itsblack muzzle buried in Rucastle's throat, while he writhed andscreamed upon the ground. Running up, I blew its brains out, and itfell over with its keen white teeth still meeting in the great creasesof his neck. With much labour we separated them and carried him,living but horribly mangled, into the house. We laid him upon thedrawing-room sofa, and having dispatched the sobered Toller to bearthe news to his wife, I did what I could to relieve his pain. Wewere all assembled round him when the door opened and a tall, gauntwoman entered the room.

　　"Mrs. Toller!" cried Miss Hunter.

　　"Yes, miss. Mr. Rucastle let me out when he came back before he wentup to you. Ah, miss, it is a pity you didn't let me know what you wereplanning, for I would have told you that your pains were wasted.""Ha!" said Holmes, looking keenly at her. "It is clear that Mrs.Toller knows more about this matter than anyone else."

　　"Yes, sir, I do, and I am ready enough to tell what I know.""Then, pray, sit down, and let us hear it, for there are severalpoints on which I must confess that I am still in the dark.""I will soon make it clear to you," said she; "and I'd have doneso before now if I could ha' got out from the cellar. If there'spolice-court business over this, you'll remember that I was the onethat stood your friend, and that I was Miss Alice's friend too."She was never happy at home, Miss Alice wasn't, from the timethat her father married again. She was slighted like and had no say inanything, but it never really became bad for her until after she metMr. Fowler at a friend's house. As well as I could learn, Miss Alicehad rights of her own by will, but she was so quiet and patient, shewas, that she never said a word about them, but just left everythingin Mr. Rucastle's hands. He knew he was safe with her; but whenthere was a chance of a husband coming forward, who would ask forall that the law would give him, then her father thought it time toput a stop on it. He wanted her to sign a paper, so that whether shemarried or not, he could use her money. When she wouldn't do it, hekept on worrying her until she got brain-fever, and for six weekswas at death's door. Then she got better at last, all worn to ashadow, and with her beautiful hair cut off; but that didn't make nochange in her young man, and he stuck to her as true as man could be.""Ah," said Holmes, "I think that what you have been good enough totell us makes the matter fairly clear, and that I can deduce allthat remains. Mr. Rucastle then, I presume, took to this system ofimprisonment?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"And brought Miss Hunter down from London in order to get rid of thedisagreeable persistence of Mr. Fowler."

　　"That was it, sir."

　　"But Mr. Fowler being a persevering man, as a good seaman should be,blockaded the house, and having met you succeeded by certainarguments, metallic or otherwise, in convincing you that yourinterests were the same as his."

　　"Mr. Fowler was a very kind-spoken, free-handed gentleman," saidMrs. Toller serenely.

　　"And in this way he managed that your good man should have no wantof drink, and that a ladder should be ready at the moment when yourmaster had gone out."

　　"You have it, sir, just as it happened."

　　"I am sure we owe you an apology, Mrs. Toller," said Holmes, "foryou have certainly cleared up everything which puzzled us. And herecomes the country surgeon and Mrs. Rucastle, so I think, Watson,that we had best escort Miss Hunter back to Winchester, as it seems tome that our locus standi now is rather a questionable one."And thus was solved the mystery of the sinister house with thecopper beeches in front of the door. Mr. Rucastle survived, but wasalways a broken man, kept alive solely through the care of his devotedwife. They still live with their old servants, who probably know somuch of Rucastle's past life that he finds it difficult to part fromthem. Mr. Fowler and Miss Rucastle were married, by special license,in Southampton the day after their flight, and he is now the holder ofa government appointment in the island of Mauritius. As to Miss VioletHunter, my friend Holmes, rather to my disappointment, manifested nofurther interest in her when once she had ceased to be the centre ofone of his problems, and she is now the head of a private school atWalsall, where I believe that she has met with considerable success.THE END

　　.

　　1923

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE CREEPING MAN

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　Mr. Sherlock Holmes was always of opinion that I should publishthe singular facts connected with Professor Presbury, if only todispel once for all the ugly rumours which some twenty years agoagitated the university and were echoed in the learned societies ofLondon. There were, however, certain obstacles in the way, and thetrue history of this curious case remained entombed in the tin boxwhich contains so many records of my friend's adventures. Now wehave at last obtained permission to ventilate the facts which formedone of the very last cases handled by Holmes before his retirementfrom practice. Even now a certain reticence and discretion have tobe observed in laying the matter before the public.

　　It was one Sunday evening early in September of the year 1903 that Ireceived one of Holmes's laconic messages:

　　Come at once if convenient- if inconvenient come all the same.S.H.

　　The relations between us in those latter days were peculiar. He wasa man of habits, narrow and concentrated habits, and I had becomeone of them. As an institution I was like the violin, the shagtobacco, the old black pipe, the index books, and others perhapsless excusable. When it was a case of active work and a comrade wasneeded upon whose nerve he could place some reliance, my role wasobvious. But apart from this I had uses. I was a whetstone for hismind. I stimulated him. He liked to think aloud in my presence. Hisremarks could hardly be said to be made to me- many of them would havebeen as appropriately addressed to his bedstead- but none the less,having formed the habit, it had become in some way helpful that Ishould register and interject. If I irritated him by a certainmethodical slowness in my mentality, that irritation served only tomake his own flame-like intuitions and impressions flash up the morevividly and swiftly. Such was my humble role in our alliance.When I arrived at Baker Street I found him huddled up in hisarmchair with updrawn knees, his pipe in his mouth and his browfurrowed with thought. It was clear that he was in the throes ofsome vexatious problem. With a wave of his hand he indicated my oldarmchair, but otherwise for half an hour he gave no sign that he wasaware of my presence. Then with a start he seemed to come from hisreverie, and with his usual whimsical smile he greeted me back to whathad once been my home.

　　"You will excuse a certain abstraction of mind, my dear Watson,"said he. "Some curious facts have been submitted to me within the lasttwenty-four hours, and they in turn have given rise to somespeculations of a more general character. I have serious thoughts ofwriting a small monograph upon the uses of dogs in the work of thedetective."

　　"But surely, Holmes, this has been explored," said I.

　　"Bloodhounds- sleuthhounds-"

　　No, no, Watson, that side of the matter is, of course, obvious.But there is another which is far more subtle. You may recollectthat in the case which you, in your sensational way, coupled withthe Copper Beeches, I was able, by watching the mind of the child,to form a deduction as to the criminal habits of the very smug andrespectable father."

　　"Yes, I remember it well."

　　"My line of thoughts about dogs is analogous. A dog reflects thefamily life. Whoever saw a frisky dog in a gloomy family, or a sad dogin a happy one? Snarling people have snarling dogs, dangerous peoplehave dangerous ones. And their passing moods may reflect the passingmoods of others."

　　I shook my head. "Surely, Holmes, this is a little far-fetched,"said I.

　　He had refilled his pipe and resumed his seat, taking no notice ofmy comment.

　　"The practical application of what I have said is very close tothe problem which I am investigating. It is a tangled skein, youunderstand, and I am looking for a loose end. One possible loose endlies in the question: Why does Professor Presbury's wolfhound, Roy,endeavour to bite him?"

　　I sank back in my chair in some disappointment. Was it for sotrivial a question as this that I had been summoned from my work?Holmes glanced across at me.

　　"The same old Watson!" said he. "You never learn that the gravestissues may depend upon the smallest things. But is it not on theface of it strange that a staid, elderly philosopher- you've heardof Presbury, of course, the famous Camford physiologist?- that sucha man, whose friend has been his devoted wolfhound, should now havebeen twice attacked by his own dog? What do you make of it?""The dog is ill."

　　"Well, that has to be considered. But he attacks no one else, nordoes he apparently molest his master, save on very specialoccasions. Curious, Watson- very curious. But young Mr. Bennett isbefore his time if that is his ring. I had hoped to have a longer chatwith you before he came."

　　There was a quick step on the stairs, a sharp tap at the door, and amoment later the new client presented himself. He was a tall, handsomeyouth about thirty, well dressed and elegant, but with something inhis bearing which suggested the shyness of the student rather than theself-possession of the man of the world. He shook hands with Holmes,and then looked with some surprise at me.

　　"This matter is very delicate, Mr. Holmes," he said. "Consider therelation in which I stand to Professor Presbury both privately andpublicly. I really can hardly justify myself if I speak before anythird person."

　　"Have no fear, Mr. Bennett. Dr. Watson is the very soul ofdiscretion, and I can assure you that this is a matter in which I amvery likely to need an assistant."

　　"As you like, Mr. Holmes. You will, I am sure, understand myhaving some reserves in the matter."

　　"You will appreciate it, Watson, when I tell you that thisgentleman, Mr. Trevor Bennett, is professional assistant to thegreat scientist, lives under his roof, and is engaged to his onlydaughter. Certainly we must agree that the professor has every claimupon his loyalty and devotion. But it may best be shown by takingthe necessary steps to clear up this strange mystery."

　　"I hope so, Mr. Holmes. That is my one object. Does Dr. Watsonknow the situation?"

　　"I have not had time to explain it."

　　"Then perhaps I had better go over the ground again beforeexplaining some fresh developments."

　　"I will do so myself," said Holmes, "in order to show that I havethe events in their due order. The professor, Watson, is a man ofEuropean reputation. His life has been academic. There has neverbeen a breath of scandal. He is a widower with one daughter, Edith. Heis, I gather, a man of very virile and positive, one might almostsay combative, character. So the matter stood until a very fewmonths ago.

　　"Then the current of his life was broken. He is sixty-one years ofage, but he became engaged to the daughter of Professor Morphy, hiscolleague in the chair of comparative anatomy. It was not, as Iunderstand, the reasoned courting of an elderly man but rather thepassionate frenzy of youth, for no one could have shown himself a moredevoted lover. The lady, Alice Morphy, was a very perfect girl both inmind and body, so that there was every excuse for the professor'sinfatuation. None the less, it did not meet with full approval inhis own family."

　　"We thought it rather excessive," said our visitor.

　　"Exactly. Excessive and a little violent and unnatural. ProfessorPresbury was rich, however, and there was no objection upon the partof the father. The daughter, however, had other views, and therewere already several candidates for her hand, who, if they were lesseligible from a worldly point of view, were at least more of an age.The girl seemed to like the professor in spite of his

　　eccentricities. It was only age which stood in the way."About this time a little mystery suddenly clouded the normalroutine of the professor's life. He did what he had never done before.He left home and gave no indication where he was going. He was awaya fortnight and returned looking rather travel-worn. He made noallusion to where he had been, although he was usually the frankest ofmen. It chanced, however, that our client here, Mr. Bennett,received a letter from a fellow-student in Prague, who said that hewas glad to have seen Professor Presbury there, although he had notbeen able to talk to him. Only in this way did his own household learnwhere he had been.

　　"Now comes the point. From that time onward a curious change cameover the professor. He became furtive and sly. Those around him hadalways the feeling that he was not the man that they had known, butthat he was under some shadow which had darkened his higher qualities.His intellect was not affected. His lectures were as brilliant asever. But always there was something new, something sinister andunexpected. His daughter, who was devoted to him, tried again andagain to resume the old relations and to penetrate this mask which herfather seemed to have put on. You, sir, as I understand, did the same-but all was in vain. And now, Mr. Bennett, tell in your own wordsthe incident of the letters."

　　"You must understand, Dr. Watson, that the professor had nosecrets from me. If I were his son or his younger brother I couldnot have more completely enjoyed his confidence. As his secretary Ihandled every paper which came to him, and I opened and subdivided hisletters. Shortly after his return all this was changed. He told methat certain letters might come to him from London which would bemarked by a cross under the stamp. These were to be set aside forhis own eyes only. I may say that several of these did pass through myhands, that they had the E.C. mark, and were in an illiteratehandwriting. If he answered them at all the answers did not passthrough my hands nor into the letter-basket in which ourcorrespondence was collected."

　　"And the box," said Holmes.

　　"Ah, yes, the box. The professor brought back a little wooden boxfrom his travels. It was the one thing which suggested a Continentaltour, for it was one of those quaint carved things which oneassociates with Germany. This he placed in this instrument cupboard.One day, in looking for a canula, I took up the box. To my surprise hewas very angry, and reproved me in words which were quite savage formy curiosity. It was the first time such a thing had happened, and Iwas deeply hurt. I endeavoured to explain that it was a mereaccident that I had touched the box, But all the evening I wasconscious that he looked at me harshly and that the incident wasrankling in his mind." Mr. Bennett drew a little diary book from hispocket. "That was on July 2d," said he.

　　"You are certainly an admirable witness," said Holmes. "I may needsome of these dates which you have noted."

　　"I learned method among other things from my great teacher. From thetime that I observed abnormality in his behaviour I felt that it wasmy duty to study his case. Thus I have it here that it was on thatvery day, July 2d, that Roy attacked the professor as he came from hisstudy into the hall. Again, on July 11th there was a scene of the samesort, and then I have a note of yet another upon July 20th. After thatwe bid to banish Roy to the stables. He was a dear, affectionateanimal- but I fear I weary you."

　　Mr. Bennett spoke in a tone of reproach, for it was very clearthat Holmes was not listening. His face was rigid and his eyes gazedabstractedly at the ceiling. With an effort he recovered himself."Singular! Most singular!" he murmured. "These details were new tome, Mr. Bennett. I think we have now fairly gone over the oldground, have we not? But you spoke of some fresh developments."The pleasant, open face of our visitor clouded over, shadowed bysome grim remembrance. "What I speak of occurred the night beforelast," said he. "I was lying awake about two in the morning, when Iwas aware of a dull muffled sound coming from the passage. I opened mydoor and peeped out. I should explain that the professor sleeps at theend of the passage-"

　　"The date being-?" asked Holmes.

　　Our visitor was clearly annoyed it so irrelevant an interruption."I have said, sir, that it was the night before last- that is,September 4th."

　　Holmes nodded and smiled.

　　"Pray continue," said he.

　　"He sleeps at the end of the passage and would have to pass mydoor in order to reach the staircase. It was a really terrifyingexperience, Mr. Holmes. I think that I am as strong-nerved as myneighbours, but I was shaken by what I saw. The passage was darksave that one window halfway along it threw a patch of light. Icould see that something was coming along the passage, somethingdark and crouching. Then suddenly it emerged into the light, and I sawthat it was he. He was crawling, Mr. Holmes- crawling! He was notquite on his hands and knees. I should rather say on his hands andfeet, with his face sunk between his hands. Yet he seemed to move withcase. I was so paralyzed by the sight that it was not until he hadreached my door that I was able to step forward and ask if I couldassist him. His answer was extraordinary. He sprang up, spat outsome atrocious word at me, and hurried on past me, and down thestaircase. I waited about for an hour, but he did not come back. Itmust have been daylight before he regained his room."

　　"Well, Watson, what make you of that?" asked Holmes with the airof the pathologist who presents a rare specimen.

　　"Lumbago, possibly. I have known a severe attack make a man walkin just such a way, and nothing would be more trying to the temper.""Good, Watson! You always keep us flat-footed on the ground. Butwe can hardly accept Lumbago, since he was able to stand erect in amoment."

　　"He was never better in health," said Bennett. "In fact, he isstronger than I have known him for years. But there are the facts, Mr.Holmes. It is not a case in which we can consult the police, and yetwe are utterly at our wit's end as to what to do, and we feel insome strange way that we are drifting towards disaster. Edith- MissPresbury- feels as I do, that we cannot wait passively any longer.""It is certainly a very curious and suggestive case. What do youthink Watson?"

　　"Speaking as a medical man," said I, "it appears to be a case for analienist. The old gentleman's cerebralo processes were disturbed bythe love affair. He made a journey abroad in the hope of breakinghimself of the passion. His letters and the box may be connectedwith some other private transaction- a loan, perhaps, or sharecertificates, which are in the box."

　　"And the wolfhound no doubt disapproved of the financial bargain.No, no, Watson, there is more in it than this. Now, I can onlysuggest-"

　　What Sherlock Holmes was about to suggest will never be known, forat this moment the door opened and a young lady was shown into theroom. As she appeared Mr. Bennett sprang up with a cry and ran forwardwith his hands out to meet those which she had herself outstretched."Edith, dear! Nothing the matter, I hope?"

　　"I felt I must follow you. Oh, Jack, I have been so dreadfullyfrightened! It is awful to be there alone."

　　"Mr. Holmes, this is the young lady I spoke of. This is my fiancee.""We were gradually coming to that conclusion, were we not,Watson?" Holmes answered with a smile. "I take it, Miss Presbury, thatthere is some fresh development in the case, and that you thought weshould know?"

　　Our new visitor, a bright, handsome girl of a conventional Englishtype, smiled back at Holmes as she seated herself beside Mr. Bennett."When I found Mr. Bennett had left his hotel I thought I shouldprobably find him here. Of course, he had told me that he wouldconsult you. But, oh, Mr. Holmes, can you do nothing for my poorfather?"

　　"I have hopes, Miss Presbury, but the case is still obscure. Perhapswhat you have to say may throw some fresh light upon it.""It was last night, Mr. Holmes. He had been very strange all day.I am sure that there are times when he has no recollection of whathe does. He lives as in a strange dream. Yesterday was such a day.It was not my father with whom I lived. His outward shell was there,but it was not really he."

　　"Tell me what happened."

　　"I was awakened in the night by the dog barking most furiously. PoorRoy, he is chained now near the stable. I may say that I alwayssleep with my door locked; for, as Jack- as Mr. Bennett- will tellyou, we all have a feeling of impending danger. My room is on thesecond floor. It happened that the blind was up in my window, andthere was bright moonlight outside. As I lay with my eyes fixed uponthe square of light, listening to the frenzied barkings of the dog,I was amazed to see my father's face looking in at me. Mr. Holmes, Inearly died of surprise and horror. There it was pressed against thewindow-pane, and one hand seemed to be raised as if to push up thewindow. If that window had opened, I think I should have gone mad.It was no delusion, Mr. Holmes. Don't deceive yourself by thinking so.I dare say it was twenty seconds or so that I lay paralyzed andwatched the face. Then it vanished, but I could not- I could notspring out of bed and look out after it. I lay cold and shivering tillmorning. At breakfast he was sharp and fierce in manner, and made noallusion to the adventure of the night. Neither did I, but I gave anexcuse for coming to town- and here I am."

　　Holmes looked thoroughly surprised at Miss Presbury's narrative."My dear young lady, you say that your room is on the secondfloor. Is there a long ladder in the garden?"

　　"No, Mr. Holmes, that is the amazing part of it. There is nopossible way of reaching the window- and yet he was there.""The date being September 5th," said Holmes. "That certainlycomplicates matters."

　　It was the young lady's turn to look surprised. "This is thesecond time that you have alluded to the date, Mr. Holmes," saidBennett. "Is it possible that it has any bearing upon the case?""It is possible- very possible- and yet I have not my fullmaterial at present."

　　"Possibly you are thinking of the connection between insanity andphases of the moon?"

　　"No, I assure you. It was quite a different line of thought.Possibly you can leave your notebook with me, and I will check thedates. Now I think, Watson, that our line of action is perfectlyclear. This young lady has informed us- and I have the greatestconfidence in her intuition- that her father remembers little ornothing which occurs upon certain dates. We will therefore call uponhim as if he had given us an appointment upon such a date. He will putit down to his own lack of memory. Thus we will open our campaign byhaving a good close view of him."

　　"That is excellent," said Mr. Bennett. "I warn you, however, thatthe professor is irascible and violent at times."

　　Holmes smiled. "There are reasons why we should come at once- verycogent reasons if my theories hold good. To-morrow, Mr. Bennett,will certainly see us in Camford. There is, if I remember right, aninn called the Chequers where the port used to be above mediocrity andthe linen was above reproached. I think, Watson, that our lot forthe next few days might be in less pleasant places."

　　Monday, morning found us on our way to the famous university town-an easy effort on the part of Holmes, who had no roots to pull up, butone which involved frantic planning and hurrying on my part, as mypractice was by this time not inconsiderable. Holmes made noallusion to the case until after we had deposited our suitcases at theancient hostel of which he had spoken.

　　"I think, Watson, that we can catch the professor just before lunch.He lectures at eleven and should have an interval at home.""What possible excuse have we for calling?"

　　Holmes glanced at his notebook.

　　"There was a period of excitement upon August 26th. We will assumethat he is a little hazy as to what he does at such times. If weinsist that we are there by appointment I think he will hardly ventureto contradict us. Have you the effrontery necessary to put itthrough?"

　　"We can but try."

　　"Excellent, Watson! Compound of the Busy Bee and Excellsior. Wecan but try- the motto of the firm. A friendly native will surelyguide us."

　　Such a one on the back of a smart hansom swept us past a row ofancient colleges and, finally turning into a tree-lined drive,pulled up at the door of a charming house, girt round with lawns andcovered with purple wistaria. Professor Presbury was certainlysurrounded with every sign not only of comfort but of luxury. Evenas we pulled up, a grizzled head appeared at the front window, andwe were aware of a pair of keen eyes from under shaggy brows whichsurveyed us through large horn glasses. A moment later we wereactually in his sanctum, and the mysterious scientist, whosevagaries had brought us from London, was standing before us. There wascertainly no sign of eccentricity either in his manner orappearance, for he was a portly, large-featured man, grave, tall,and frock-coated, with the dignity of bearing which a lecturerneeds. His eyes were his most remarkable feature, keen, observant, andclever to the verge of cunning.

　　He looked at our cards. "Pray sit down, gentlemen. What can I do foryou?"

　　Mr. Holmes smiled amiably.

　　"It was the question which I was about to put to you, Professor.""To me, sir!"

　　"Possibly there is some mistake. I heard through a second personthat Professor Presbury of Camford had need of my services.""Oh, indeed!" It seemed to me that there was a malicious sparklein the intense gray eyes. "You heard that, did you? May I ask the nameof your informant?"

　　"I am sorry, Professor, but the matter was rather confidential. If Ihave made a mistake there is no harm done. I can only express myregret."

　　"Not at all. I should wish to go further into this matter. Itinterests me. Have you any scrap of writing, any letter or telegram,to bear out your assertion?"

　　"No, I have not."

　　"I presume that you do not go so far as to assert that I summonedyou?"

　　"I would rather answer no questions," said Holmes.

　　"No, I dare say not," said the professor with asperity. "However,that particular one can be answered very easily without your aid."He walked across the room to the bell. Our London friend, Mr.Bennett, answered the call.

　　"Come in, Mr. Bennett. These two gentlemen have come from Londonunder the impression that they have been summoned. You handle all mycorrespondence. Have you a note of anything going to a person namedHolmes?"

　　"No, sir," Bennett answered with a flush.

　　"That is conclusive," said the professor, glaring angrily at mycompanion. "Now, sir"- he leaned forward with his two hands upon thetable- "it seems to me that your position is a very questionable one."Holmes shrugged his shoulders.

　　"I can only repeat that I am sorry that we have made a needlessintrusion."

　　"Hardly enough, Mr. Holmes!" the old man cried in a high screamingvoice, with extraordinary malignancy upon his face. He got betweenus and the door as he spoke, and he shook his two hands at us withfurious passion. "You can hardly get out of it so easily as that." Hisface was convulsed, and he grinned and gibbered at us in his senselessrage. I am convinced that we should have had to fight our way out ofthe room if Mr. Bennett had not intervened.

　　"My dear Professor," he cried, "consider your position! Consider thescandal at the university! Mr. Holmes is a well-known man. Youcannot possibly treat him with such discourtesy."

　　Sulkily our host- if I may call him so- cleared the path to thedoor. We were glad to find ourselves outside the house and in thequiet of the tree-lined drive. Holmes seemed greatly amused by theepisode.

　　"Our learned friend's nerves are somewhat out of order," said he."Perhaps our intrusion was a little crude, and yet we have gained thatpersonal contact which I desired. But, dear me, Watson, he is surelyat our heels. The villain still pursues us."

　　There were the sounds of running feet behind, but it was, to myrelief, not the formidable professor but his assistant who appearedround the curve of the drive. He came panting up to us."I am so sorry, Mr. Holmes. I wished to apologize."

　　"My dear sir, there is no need. It is all in the way of professionalexperience."

　　"I have never seen him in a more dangerous mood. But he grows moresinister. You can understand now why his daughter and I are alarmed.And yet his mind is perfectly clear."

　　"Too clear!" said Holmes. "That was my miscalculation. It is evidentthat his memory is much more reliable than I had thought. By theway, can we, before we go, see the window of Miss Presbury's room?"Mr. Bennett pushed his way through some shrubs, and we had a view ofthe side of the house.

　　"It is there. The second on the left."

　　"Dear me, it seems hardly accessible. And yet you will observethat there is a creeper bellow and a water-pipe above which givesome foothold."

　　"I could not climb it myself," said Mr. Bennett.

　　"Very likely. It would certainly be a dangerous exploit for anynormal man."

　　"There was one other thing I wish to tell you, Mr. Holmes. I havethe address of the man in London to whom the professor writes. Heseems to have written this morning, and I got it from hisblotting-paper. It is an ignoble position for a trusted secretary, butwhat else can I do?"

　　Holmes glanced at the paper and put it into his pocket."Dorak- a curious name. Slavonic, I imagine. Well, it is animportant link in the chain. We return to London, this afternoon,Mr. Bennett. I see no good purpose to be served by our remaining. Wecannot arrest the professor because he has done no crime, nor can weplace him under constraint, for he cannot be proved to be mad. Noaction is is yet possible."

　　"Then what on earth are we to do?"

　　"A little patience, Mr. Bennett. Things will soon develop. UnlessI am mistaken, next Tuesday may mark a crisis. Certainly we shall bein Camford on that day. meanwhile, the general position isundeniably unpleasant, and if Miss Presbury can prolong her visit-"That is easy."

　　"Then let her stay till we can assure her that all danger is past.Meanwhile, let him have his way and do not cross him. So long as he isin a good humour all is well."

　　"There he is!" said Bennett in a startled whisper. Looking betweenthe branches we saw the tall, great figure emerge from the hall doorand look around him. He stood leaning forward, his hands swingingstraight before him, his head turning from side to side. The secretarywith a last wave slipped off among the trees, and we saw him presentlyrejoin his employer, the two entering the house together in whatseemed to be animated and even excited conversation.

　　"I expect the old gentleman has been putting two and twotogether," said Holmes as we walked hotelward. "He struck me as havinga particularly clear and logical brain from the little I saw of him.Explosive, no doubt, but then from his point of view he hassomething to explode about if detectives are put on his track and hesuspects his own household of doing it. I rather fancy that friendBennett is in for an uncomfortable time."

　　Holmes stopped at a post-office and sent off a telegram on ourway. The answer reached us in the evening, and he tossed it acrossto me.

　　Have visited the Commercial Road and seen Dorak. Suave person,Bohemian, elderly. Keeps large general store.

　　MERCER.

　　"Mercer is since your time," said Holmes. "He is my generalutility man who looks up routine business. It was important to knowsomething of the man with whom our professor was so secretlycorresponding. His nationality connects up with the Prague visit.""Thank goodness that something connects with something," said I. "Atpresent we seem to be faced by a long series of inexplicable incidentswith no bearing upon each other. For example, what possible connectioncan there be between an angry wolfhound and a visit to Bohemia, oreither of them with a man crawling down a passage at night? As to yourdates, that is the biggest mystification of all."

　　Holmes smiled and rubbed his hands, We were, I may say, seated inthe old sitting-room of the ancient hotel, with a bottle of the famousvintage of which Holmes had spoken on the table between us."Well, now, let us take the dates first," said he, his finger-tipstogether and his manner as if he were addressing a class. "Thisexcellent young man's diary shows that there was trouble upon July 2d,and from then onward it seems to have been at nine-day intervals,with, so far as I remember, only one exception. Thus the last outbreakupon Friday was on September 3rd, which also falls into the series, asdid August 26th, which preceded it. The thing is beyond coincidence."I was forced to agree.

　　"Let us, then, form the provisional theory that every nine daysthe professor takes some strong drug which has a passing but highlypoisonous effect. His naturally violent nature is intensified by it.He learned to take this drug while he was in Prague, and is nowsupplied with it by a Bohemian intermediary in London. This allhangs together, Watson!"

　　"But the dog, the face at the window, the creeping man in thepassage?"

　　"Well, well, we have made a beginning. I should not expect any freshdevelopments until next Tuesday. In the meantime we can only keep intouch with friend Bennett and enjoy, the amnenities of this charmingtown."

　　In the morning Mr. Bennett slipped round to bring us the latestreport. As Holmes had imagined, times had not been easy with him.Without exactly accusing him of being responsible for our presence,the professor had been very rough and rude in his speech, andevidently felt some strong grievance. This morning he was quitehimself again, However, and had delivered his usual brilliantlecture to a crowded class. "Apart from his queer fits," said Bennett,"he has actually more energy and vitality, than I can ever remember,nor was his brain ever clearer. But it's not he- it's never the manwhom we have known."

　　"I don't think you have anything to fear now for a week at least,"Holmes answered. "I am a busy man, and Dr. Watson has his patientsto attend to. Let us agree that we meet here at this hour nextTuesday, and I shall be surprised if before we leave you again weare not able to explain, even if we cannot perhaps put an end to, yourtroubles. Meanwhile, keep us posted in what occurs."

　　I saw nothing of my friend for the next few days, but on thefollowing Monday evening I had a short note asking me to meet him nextday at the train. From what he told me as we travelled up to Camfordall was well, the peace of the professor's house had been unruffled,and his own conduct perfectly normal. This also was the report whichwas given us by Mr. Bennett himself when he called upon us thatevening at our old quarters in the Chequers. "He heard from his Londoncorrespondent to-day. There was a letter and there was a small packet,each with the cross under the stamp which warned me not to touch them.There has been nothing else."

　　That may prove quite enough," said Holmes grimly. "Now, Mr. Bennett,we shall, I think, come to some conclusion to-night. If mydeductions are correct we should have an opportunity of bringingmatters to a head. In order to do so it is necessary to hold theprofessor under observation. I would suggest, therefore, that youremain awake and on the lookout. Should you hear him pass your door,do not interrupt him, but follow him as discreetly as you can. Dr.Watson and I will not be far off. By the way, where is the key of thatlittle box of which you spoke?"

　　"Upon his watch-chain."

　　"I fancy our researches must lie in that direction. At the worst thelock should not be very formidable. Have you any other able-bodied manon the premises?"

　　"There is the coachman, Macphail."

　　"Where does he sleep?"

　　"Over the stables."

　　"We might possibly want him. Well, we can do no more until we seehow things develop. Good-bye- but I expect that we shall see youbefore morning."

　　It was nearly midnight before we took our station among somebushes immediately opposite the hall door of the professor. It was afine night, but chilly, and we were glad of our warm overcoats.There was a breeze, and clouds were scudding across the sky, obscuringfrom time to time the half-moon. It would have been a dismal vigilwere it not for the expectation and excitement which carried us along,and the assurance of my comrade that we had probably reached the endof the strange sequence of events which had engaged our attention."If the circle of nine days holds good then we shall have theprofessor at his worst to-night," said Holmes. "The fact that thesestrange symptoms began after his visit to Prague, that he is in secretcorrespondence with a Bohemian dealer in London, who presumablyrepresents someone in Prague, and that he received a packet from himthis very day, all point in one direction. What he takes and why hetakes it are still beyond our ken, but that it emanates in some wayfrom Prague is clear enough. He takes it under definite directionswhich regulate this ninth-day system, which was the first pointwhich attracted my attention. But his symptoms are most remarkable.Did you observe his knuckles?"

　　I had to confess that I did not.

　　"Thick and horny in a way which is quite new in my experience.Always look at the hands first, Watson. Then cuffs, trouser-knees, andboots. Very curious knuckles which can only be explained by the modeof progression observed by-" Holmes paused and suddenly clapped hishand to his forehead. "Oh, Watson, Watson, what a fool I have been! Itseems incredible, and yet it must be true. All points in onedirection. How could I miss seeing the connection of ideas? Thoseknuckles- how could I have passed those knuckles? And the dog! And theivy! It's surely time that I disappeared into that little farm of mydreams. Look out, Watson! Here he is! We shall have the chance ofseeing for ourselves."

　　The hall door had slowly opened, and against the lamplitbackground we saw the tall figure of Professor Presbury. He was cladin his dressing-gown. As he stood outlined in the doorway he was greatbut leaning forward with dangling arms, as when we saw him last.Now he stepped forward into the drive, and an extraordinary changecame over him. He sank down into a crouching position and movedalong upon his hands and feet, skipping every now and then as if hewere overflowing with energy and vitality. He moved along the faceof the house and then round the corner. As he disappeared Bennettslipped through the hall door and softly followed him.

　　"Come, Watson, come!" cried Holmes, and we stole as softly as wecould through the bushes until we had gained a spot whence we couldsee the other side of the house, which was bathed in the light ofthe half-moon. The professor was clearly visible crouching at the footof the ivy-covered wall. As we watched him he suddenly began withincredible agility to ascend it. From branch to branch he sprang, sureof foot and firm of grasp, climbing apparently in mere joy at hisown powers, with no definite object in view. With his dressing-gownflapping on each side of him, he looked like some huge bat gluedagainst the side of his own house, a great square dark patch uponthe moonlit wall. Presently he tired of this amusement, and,dropping from branch to branch, he squatted down into the old attitudeand moved towards the stables, creeping along in the same strangeway as before. The wolfhound was out now, barking furiously, andmore excited than ever when it actually caught sight of its master. Itwas straining on its chain and quivering with eagerness and rage.The professor squatted down very deliberately just out of reach of thebound and began to provoke it in every possible way. He tookhandfuls of pebbles from the drive and threw them in the dog's face,prodded him with a stick which he had picked up, flicked his handsabout only a few inches from the gaping mouth, and endeavoured inevery way to increase the animal's fury, which was already beyondall control. In all our adventures I do not know that I have ever seena more strange sight than this impassive and still dignified figurecrouching frog-like upon the ground and goading to a wilder exhibitionof passion the maddened hound, which ramped and raged in front of him,by all manner of ingenious and calculated cruelty.

　　And then in a moment it happened! It was not the chain that broke,but it was the collar that slipped, for it had been made for athick-necked Newfoundland. We heard the rattle of falling metal, andthe next instant dog and man were rolling on the ground together,the one roaring in rage, the other screaming in a strange shrillfalsetto of terror. It was a very narrow thing for the professor'slife. The savage creature had him fairly by the throat, its fangshad bitten deep, and he was senseless before we could reach them anddrag the two apart. It might have been a dangerous task for us, butBennett's voice and presence brought the great wolfhound instantlyto reason. The uproar had brought the sleepy and astonished coachmanfrom his room above the stables. "I'm not surprised," said he, shakinghis bead. "I've seen him at it before. I knew the dog would get himsooner or later."

　　The hound was secured, and together we carried the professor up tohis room, where Bennett, who had a medical degree, helped me todress his torn throat. The sharp teeth had passed dangerously near thecarotid artery, and the haemorrhage was serious. In half an hour thedanger was past, I had given the patient an injection of morphia,and he had sunk into deep sleep. Then, and only then, were we ableto look at each other and to take stock of the situation."I think a first-class surgeon should see him," said I."For God's sake, no!" cried Bennett. "At present the scandal isconfined to our own household. It is safe with us. If it gets beyondthese walls it will never stop. Consider his position at theuniversity, his European reputation, the feelings of his daughter.""Quite so," said Holmes. "I think it may be quite possible to keepthe matter to ourselves, and also to prevent its recurrence now thatwe have a free hand. The key from the watch-chain, Mr. Bennett.Macphail will guard the patient and let us know if there is anychange. Let us see what we can find in the professor's mysteriousbox."

　　There was not much, but there was enough- an empty phial, anothernearly full, a hypodermic syringe, several letters in a crabbed,foreign hand. The marks on the envelopes showed that they were thosewhich had disturbed the routine of the secretary, and each was datedfrom the Commercial Road and signed "A. Dorak." They were mereinvoices to say that a fresh bottle was being sent to ProfessorPresbury, or receipt to acknowledge money. There was one otherenvelope, however, in a more educated band and bearing the Austrianstamp with the postmark of Prague. "Here we have our material!"cried Holmes as he tore out the enclosure.

　　HONOURED COLLEAGUE [it ran]:

　　Since your esteemed visit I have thought much of your case, andthough in your circumstances there are some special reasons for thetreatment, I would none the less enjoin caution, as my results haveshown that it is not without danger of a kind.

　　It is possible that the serum of anthropoid would have beenbetter. I have, as I explained to you, used black-faced langur becausea specimen was accessible. Langur is, of course, a crawler andclimber, while anthropoid walk erect and is in all ways nearer.I beg you to take every possible precaution that there be nopremature revelation of the process. I have one other client inEngland, and Dorak is my agent for both.

　　Weekly reports will oblige.

　　Yours with high esteem,

　　H. LOWENSTEIN.

　　Lowenstein! The name brought back to me the memory of some snippetfrom a newspaper which, spoke of an obscure scientist who was strivingin some unknown way for the secret of rejuvenescence and the elixir oflife. Lowenstein of Prague! Lowenstein with the wondrousstrength-giving serum, tabooed by the profession because he refused toreveal its source. In a few words I said what I remembered. Bennetthad taken a manual of zoology from the shelves. "'Langur,'" he read,"'the great black-faced monkey of the Himalayan slopes, biggest andmost human of climbing monkeys.' Many details are added. Well,thanks to you, Mr. Holmes, it is very clear that we have traced theevil to its source."

　　"The real source," said Holmes, "lies, of course, in that untimelylove affair which gave our impetuous professor the idea that hecould only gain his wish by turning himself into a younger man. Whenone tries to rise above nature one is liable to fall below it. Thehighest type of man may revert to the animal if he leaves tilestraight road of destiny." He sat musing for a little with the phialin his hand, looking at the clear liquid within. "When I havewritten to this man and told him that I hold him criminallyresponsible for the poisons which he circulates, we will have nomore trouble. But it may recur. Others may find a better way. There isdanger there- a very real danger to humanity. Consider, Watson, thatthe material, the sensual, the worldly would all prolong theirworthless lives. The spiritual would not avoid the call to somethinghigher. It would be the survival of the least fit. What sort ofcesspool may not our poor world become?" Suddenly the dreamerdisappeared, and Holmes, the man of action, sprang from his chair."I think there is nothing more to be said, Mr. Bennett. The variousincidents will how fit themselves easily into the general scheme.The dog, of course, was aware of the change far more quickly than you.His smell would insure that. It was the monkey, not the professor,whom Roy attacked, just as it was the monkey who teased Roy.Climbing was a joy to the creature, and it was a mere chance, I takeit, that the pastime brought him to the young lady's window. Thereis an early train to town, Watson, but I think we shall just have timefor a cup of tea at the Chequers before we catch it."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1903

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE DANCING MEN

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE DANCING MEN

　　Holmes had been seated for some hours in silence with his long, thinback curved over a chemical vessel in which he was brewing aparticularly malodorous product. His head was sunk upon his breast,and he looked from my point of view like a strange, lank bird, withdull gray plumage and a black top-knot.

　　"So, Watson," said he, suddenly, "you do not propose to invest inSouth African securities?"

　　I gave a start of astonishment. Accustomed as I was to Holmes'scurious faculties, this sudden intrusion into my most intimatethoughts was utterly inexplicable.

　　"How on earth do you know that?" I asked.

　　He wheeled round upon his stool, with a steaming test-tube in hishand, and a gleam of amusement in his deep-set eyes.

　　"Now, Watson, confess yourself utterly taken aback," said he."I am."

　　"I ought to make you sign a paper to that effect."

　　"Why?"

　　"Because in five minutes you will say that it is all so absurdlysimple."

　　"I am sure that I shall say nothing of the kind."

　　"You see, my dear Watson"- he propped his test-tube in the rack, andbegan to lecture with the air of a professor addressing his class- "itis not really difficult to construct a series of inferences, eachdependent upon its predecessor and each simple in itself. If, afterdoing so, one simply knocks out all the central inferences andpresents one's audience with the starting-point and the conclusion,one may produce a startling, though possibly a meretricious, effect.Now, it was not really difficult, by an inspection of the groovebetween your left forefinger and thumb, to feel sure that you didnot propose to invest your small capital in the gold fields.""I see no connection."

　　"Very likely not; but I can quickly show you a close connection.Here are the missing links of the very simple chain: 1. You hadchalk between your left finger and thumb when you returned from theclub last night. 2. You put chalk there when you play billiards, tosteady the cue. 3. You never play billiards except with Thurston.4. You told me, four weeks ago, that Thurston had an option on someSouth African property which would expire in a month, and which hedesired you to share with him. 5. Your check book is locked in mydrawer, and you have not asked for the key. 6. You do not propose toinvest your money in this manner."

　　"How absurdly simple!" I cried.

　　"Quite so!" said he, a little nettled. "Every problem becomes verychildish when once it is explained to you. Here is an unexplained one.See what you can make of that, friend Watson." He tossed a sheet ofpaper upon the table, and turned once more to his chemical analysis.I looked with amazement at the absurd hieroglyphics upon the paper."Why, Holmes, it is a child's drawing," I cried.

　　"Oh, that's your idea!"

　　"What else should it be?"

　　"That is what Mr. Hilton Cubitt, of Riding Thorpe Manor, Norfolk, isvery anxious to know. This little conundrum came by the first post,and he was to follow by the next train. There's a ring at the bell,Watson. I should not be very much surprised if this were he."A heavy step was heard upon the stairs, and an instant later thereentered a tall, ruddy, clean-shaven gentleman, whose clear eyes andflorid cheeks told of a life led far from the fogs of Baker Street. Heseemed to bring a whiff of his strong, fresh, bracing, east-coastair with him as he entered. Having shaken hands with each of us, hewas about to sit down, when his eye rested upon the paper with thecurious markings, which I had just examined and left upon the table."Well, Mr. Holmes, what do you make of these?" he cried. "Theytold me that you were fond of queer mysteries, and I don't think youcan find a queerer one than that. I sent the paper on ahead, so thatyou might have time to study it before I came."

　　"It is certainly rather a curious production," said Holmes. "Atfirst sight it would appear to be some childish prank. It consistsof a number of absurd little figures dancing across the paper uponwhich they are drawn. Why should you attribute any importance to sogrotesque an object?"

　　"I never should, Mr. Holmes. But my wife does. It is frightening herto death. She says nothing, but I can see terror in her eyes. That'swhy I want to sift the matter to the bottom."

　　Holmes held up the paper so that the sunlight shone full upon it. Itwas a page torn from a notebook. The markings were done in pencil, andran in this way:

　　(See illustration.)

　　Holmes examined it for some time, and then, folding it carefully up,he placed it in his pocketbook.

　　"This promises to be a most interesting and unusual case," saidhe. "You gave me a few particulars in your letter, Mr. HiltonCubitt, but I should be very much obliged if you would kindly goover it all again for the benefit of my friend, Dr. Watson.""I'm not much of a story-teller," said our visitor, nervouslyclasping and unclasping his great, strong hands. "You'll just ask meanything that I don't make clear. I'll begin at the time of mymarriage last year, but I want to say first of all that, though I'mnot a rich man, my people have been at Riding Thorpe for a matter offive centuries, and there is no better known family in the County ofNorfolk. Last year I came up to London for the Jubilee, and Istopped at a boardinghouse in Russell Square, because Parker, thevicar of our parish, was staying in it. There was an American younglady there- Patrick was the name- Elsie Patrick. In some way we becamefriends, until before my month was up I was as much in love as mancould be. We were quietly married at a registry office, and wereturned to Norfolk a wedded couple. You'll think it very mad, Mr.Holmes, that a man of a good old family should marry a wife in thisfashion, knawing nothing of her past or of her people, but if yousaw her and knew her, it would help you to understand.

　　"She was very straight about it, was Elsie. I can't say that she didnot give me every chance of getting out of it if I wished to do so. `Ihave had some very disagreeable associations in my life,' said she, `Iwish to forget all about them. I would rather never allude to thepast, for it is very painful to me. If you take me, Hilton, you willtake a woman who has nothing that she need be personally ashamed of,but you will have to be content with my word for it, and to allow meto be silent as to all that passed up to the time when I became yours.If these conditions are too hard, then go back to Norfolk, and leaveme to the lonely life in which you found me.' It was only the daybefore our wedding that she said those very words to me. I told herthat I was content to take her on her own terms, and I have been asgood as my word.

　　"Well we have been married now for a year, and very happy we havebeen. But about a month ago, at the end of June, I saw for the firsttime signs of trouble. One day my wife received a letter from America.I saw the American stamp. She turned deadly white, read the letter,and threw it into the fire. She made no allusion to it afterwards, andI made none, for a promise is a promise, but she has never known aneasy hour from that moment. There is always a look of fear upon herface- a look as if she were waiting and expecting. She would do betterto trust me. She would find that I was her best friend. But untilshe speaks, I can say nothing. Mind you, she is a truthful woman,Mr. Holmes, and whatever trouble there may have been in her pastlife it has been no fault of hers. I am only a simple Norfolksquire, but there is not a man in England who ranks his familyhonour more highly than I do. She knows it well, and she knew itwell before she married me. She would never bring any stain upon it-of that I am sure.

　　"Well, now I come to the queer part of my story. About a week ago-it was the Tuesday of last week- I found on one of the window-sillsa number of absurd little dancing figures like these upon the paper.They were scrawled with chalk. I thought that it was the stable-boywho had drawn them, but the lad swore he knew nothing about it.Anyhow, they had come there during the night. I had them washed out,and I only mentioned the matter to my wife afterwards. To my surprise,she took it very seriously, and begged me if any more came to lether see them. None did come for a week, and then yesterday morning Ifound this paper lying on the sundial in the garden. I showed it toElsie, and down she dropped in a dead faint. Since then she has lookedlike a woman in a dream, half dazed, and with terror always lurking inher eyes. It was then that I wrote and sent the paper to you, Mr.Holmes. It was not a thing that I could take to the police, for theywould have laughed at me, but you will tell me what to do. I am nota rich man, but if there is any danger threatening my little woman,I would spend my last copper to shield her."

　　He was a fine creature, this man of the old English soil-simple,straight, and gentle, with his great, earnest blue eyes and broad,comely face. His love for his wife and his trust in her shone in hisfeatures. Holmes had listened to his story with the utmostattention, and now he sat for some time in silent thought."Don't you think, Mr. Cubitt," said he, at last, "that your bestplan would be to make a direct appeal to your wife, and to ask herto share her secret with you?"

　　Hilton Cubitt shook his massive head.

　　"A promise is a promise, Mr. Holmes. If Elsie wished to tell meshe would. If not, it is not for me to force her confidence. But Iam justified in taking my own line- and I will."

　　"Then I will help you with all my heart. In the first place, haveyou heard of any strangers being seen in your neighbourhood?""No."

　　"I presume that it is a very quiet place. Any fresh face would causecomment?"

　　"In the immediate neighbourhood, yes. But we have several smallwatering places not very far away. And the farmers take in lodgers.""These hieroglyphics have evidently a meaning. If it is a purelyarbitrary one, it may be impossible for us to solve it. If, on theother hand, it is systematic, I have no doubt that we shall get to thebottom of it. But this particular sample is so short that I can donothing, and the facts which you have brought me are so indefinitethat we have no basis for an investigation. I would suggest that youreturn to Norfolk, that you keep a keen lookout, and that you takean exact copy of any fresh dancing men which may appear. It is athousand pities that we have not a reproduction of those which weredone in chalk upon the window-sill. Make a discreet inquiry also as toany strangers in the neighbourhood. When you have collected some freshevidence, come to me again. That is the best advice which I can giveyou, Mr. Hilton Cubitt. If there are any pressing freshdevelopments, I shall be always ready to run down and see you inyour Norfolk home."

　　The interview left Sherlock Holmes very thoughtful, and severaltimes in the next few days I saw him take his slip of paper from hisnotebook and look long and earnestly at the curious figuresinscribed upon it. He made no allusion to the affair, however, untilone afternoon a fortnight or so later. I was going out when hecalled me back.

　　"You had better stay here, Watson."

　　"Why?"

　　"Because I had a wire from Hilton Cubitt this morning. Youremember Hilton Cubitt, of the dancing men? He was to reachLiverpool Street at one-twenty. He may be here at any moment. I gatherfrom his wire that there have been some new incidents of importance."We had not long to wait, for our Norfolk squire came straight fromthe station as fast as a hansom could bring him. He was lookingworried and depressed, with tired eyes and a lined forehead."It's getting on my nerves, this business, Mr. Holmes," said he,as he sank, like a wearied man, into an armchair. "It's bad enoughto feel that you are surrounded by unseen, unknown folk, who have somekind of design upon you, but when, in addition to that, you knowthat it is just killing your wife by inches, then it becomes as muchas flesh and blood can endure. She's wearing away under it- justwearing away before my eyes."

　　"Has she said anything yet?"

　　"No, Mr. Holmes, she has not. And yet there have been times when thepoor girl has wanted to speak, and yet could not quite bring herselfto take the plunge. I have tried to help her, but I daresay I did itclumsily, and scared her from it. She has spoken about my oldfamily, and our reputation in the county, and our pride in ourunsullied honour, and I always felt it was leading to the point, butsomehow it turned off before we got there."

　　"But you have found out something for yourself?"

　　"A good deal, Mr. Holmes. I have several fresh dancing-menpictures for you to examine, and, what is more important, I haveseen the fellow."

　　"What, the man who draws them?"

　　"Yes, I saw him at his work. But I will tell you everything inorder. When I got back after my visit to you, the very first thing Isaw next morning was a fresh crop of dancing men. They had beendrawn in chalk upon the black wooden door of the tool-house, whichstands beside the lawn in full view of the front windows. I took anexact copy, and here it is." He unfolded a paper and laid it uponthe table. Here is a copy of the hieroglyphics:

　　(See illustration.)

　　"Excellent!" said Holmes. "Excellent! Pray continue."

　　"When I had taken the copy, I rubbed out the marks, but, twomornings later, a fresh inscription had appeared. I have a copy ofit here":

　　(See illustration.)

　　Holmes rubbed his hands and chuckled with delight.

　　"Our material is rapidly accumulating," said he.

　　"Three days later a message was left scrawled upon paper, and placedunder a pebble upon the sundial. Here it is. The characters are, asyou see, exactly the same as the last one. After that I determinedto lie in wait, so I got out my revolver and I sat up in my study,which overlooks the lawn and garden. About two in the morning I wasseated by the window, all being dark save for the moonlight outside,when I heard steps behind me, and there was my wife in herdressinggown. She implored me to come to bed. I told her franklythat I wished to see who it was who played such absurd tricks upon us.She answered that it was some senseless practical joke, and that Ishould not take any notice of it.

　　"`If it really annoys you, Hilton, we might go and travel, you andI, and so avoid this nuisance.'

　　"`What, be driven out of our own house by a practical joker?' saidI. `Why, we should have the whole county laughing at us.'"`Well, come to bed,' said she, `and we can discuss it in themorning.'

　　"Suddenly, as she spoke, I saw her white face grow whiter yet in themoonlight, and her hand tightened upon my shoulder. Something wasmoving in the shadow of the tool-house. I saw a dark, creepingfigure which crawled round the corner and squatted in front of thedoor. Seizing my pistol, I was rushing out, when my wife threw herarms round me and held me with convulsive strength. I tried to throwher off, but she clung to me most desperately. At last I got clear,but by the time I had opened the door and reached the house thecreature was gone. He had left a trace of his presence, however, forthere on the door was the very same arrangement of dancing men whichhad already twice appeared, and which I have copied on that paper.There was no other sign of the fellow anywhere, though I ran allover the grounds. And yet the amazing thing is that he must havebeen there all the time, for when I examined the door again in themorning, he had scrawled some more of his pictures under the linewhich I had already seen."

　　"Have you that fresh drawing?"

　　"Yes, it is very short, but I made a copy of it, and here it is."Again he produced a paper. The new dance was in this form:(See illustration.)

　　"Tell me," said Holmes- and I could see by his eyes that he was muchexcited- "was this a mere addition to the first or did it appear to beentirely separate?"

　　"It was on a different panel of the door."

　　"Excellent! This is far the most important of all for our purpose.It fills me with hopes. Now, Mr. Hilton Cubitt, please continue yourmost interesting statement."

　　"I have nothing more to say, Mr. Holmes, except that I was angrywith my wife that night for having held me back when I might havecaught the skulking rascal. She said that she feared that I might cometo harm. For an instant it had crossed my mind that perhaps what shereally feared was that he might come to harm, for I could not doubtthat she knew who this man was, and what he meant by these strangesignals. But there is a tone in my wife's voice, Mr. Holmes, and alook in her eyes which forbid doubt, and I am sure that it wasindeed my own safety that was in her mind. There's the whole case, andnow I want your advice as to what I ought to do. My own inclination isto put half a dozen of my farm lads in the shrubbery, and when thisfellow comes again to give him such a hiding that he will leave usin peace for the future."

　　"I fear it is too deep a case for such simple remedies," saidHolmes. "How long can you stay in London?"

　　"I must go back to-day. I would not leave my wife alone all nightfor anything. She is very nervous, and begged me to come back.""I daresay you are right. But if you could have stopped, I mightpossibly have been able to return with you in a day or two.Meanwhile you will leave me these papers, and I think that it isvery likely that I shall be able to pay you a visit shortly and tothrow some light upon your case."

　　Sherlock Holmes preserved his calm professional manner until ourvisitor had left us, although it was easy for me, who knew him sowell, to see that he was profoundly excited. The moment that HiltonCubitt's broad back had disappeared through the door my comrade rushedto the table, laid out all the slips of paper containing dancing menin front of him, and threw himself into an intricate and elaboratecalculation. For two hours I watched him as he covered sheet aftersheet of paper with figures and letters, so completely absorbed in histask that he had evidently forgotten my presence. Sometimes he wasmaking progress and whistled and sang at his work; sometimes he waspuzzled, and would sit for long spells with a furrowed brow and avacant eye. Finally he sprang from his chair with a cry ofsatisfaction, and walked up and down the room rubbing his handstogether. Then he wrote a long telegram upon a cable form. "If myanswer to this is as I hope, you will have a very pretty case to addto your collection, Watson," said he. "I expect that we shall beable to go down to Norfolk tomorrow, and to take our friend somevery definite news as to the secret of his annoyance."

　　I confess that I was filled with curiosity, but I was aware thatHolmes liked to make his disclosures at his own time and in his ownway, so I waited until it should suit him to take me into hisconfidence.

　　But there was a delay in that answering telegram, and two days ofimpatience followed, during which Holmes pricked up his ears atevery ring of the bell. the evening of the second there came aletter from Hilton Cubitt. All was quiet with him, save that a longinscription had appeared that morning upon the pedestal of thesundial. He inclosed a copy of it, which is here reproduced:(See illustration.)

　　Holmes bent over this grotesque frieze for some minutes, and thensuddenly sprang to his feet with an exclamation of surprise anddismay. His face was haggard with anxiety.

　　"We have let this affair go far enough," said he. "Is there atrain to North Walsham to-night?"

　　I turned up the time-table. The last had just gone.

　　"Then we shall breakfast early and take the very first in themorning," said Holmes. "Our presence is most urgently needed. Ah! hereis our expected cablegram. One moment, Mrs. Hudson, there may be ananswer. No, that is quite as I expected. This message makes it evenmore essential that we should not lose an hour in letting HiltonCubitt know how matters stand, for it is a singular and a dangerousweb in which our simple Norfolk squire is entangled."

　　So, indeed, it proved, and as I come to the dark conclusion of astory which had seemed to me to be only childish and bizarre, Iexperience once again the dismay and horror with which I was filled.Would that I had some brighter ending to communicate to my readers,but these are the chronicles of fact, and I must follow to theirdark crisis the strange chain of events which for some days madeRiding Thorpe Manor a household word through the length and breadth ofEngland.

　　We had hardly alighted at North Walsham, and mentioned the name ofour destination, when the stationmaster hurried towards us. "I supposethat you are the detectives from London?" said he.

　　A look of annoyance passed over Holmes's face.

　　"What makes you think such a thing?"

　　"Because Inspector Martin from Norwich has just passed through.But maybe you are the surgeons. She's not dead- or wasn't by lastaccounts. You may be in time to save her yet- though it be for thegallows."

　　Holmes's brow was dark with anxiety.

　　"We are going to Riding Thorpe Manor," said he, "but we have heardnothing of what has passed there."

　　"It's a terrible business," said the stationmaster. "They are shotboth Mr. Hilton Cubitt and his wife. She shot him and then herself- sothe servants say. He's dead and her life is despaired of. Dear,dear, one of the oldest families in the county of Norfolk, and oneof the most honoured."

　　Without a word Holmes hurried to a carriage, and during the longseven miles' drive he never opened his mouth. Seldom have I seen himso utterly despondent. He had been uneasy during all our journeyfrom town, and I had observed that he had turned over the morningpapers with anxious attention, but now this sudden realization ofhis worst fears left him in a blank melancholy. He leaned back inhis seat, lost in gloomy speculation. Yet there was much around tointerest us, for we were passing through as singular a countrysideas any in England, where a few scattered cottages represented thepopulation of to-day, while on every hand enormous square-toweredchurches bristled up from the flat green landscape and told of theglory and prosperity of old East Anglia. At last the violet rim of theGerman Ocean appeared over the green edge of the Norfolk coast, andthe driver pointed with his whip to two old brick and timber gableswhich projected from a grove of trees. "That's Riding Thorpe Manor,"said he.

　　As we drove up to the porticoed front door, I observed in front ofit, beside the tennis lawn, the black tool-house and the pedestalledsundial with which we had such strange associations. A dapper littleman, with a quick, alert manner and a waxed moustache, had justdescended from a high dog-cart. He introduced himself as InspectorMartin, of the Norfolk Constabulary, and he was considerablyastonished when he heard the name of my companion.

　　"Why, Mr. Holmes, the crime was only committed at three thismorning. How could you hear of it in London and get to the spot assoon as I?"

　　"I anticipated it. I came in the hope of preventing it.""Then you must have important evidence, of which we are ignorant,for they were said to be a most united couple."

　　"I have only the evidence of the dancing men," said Holmes. "Iwill explain the matter to you later. Meanwhile, since it is toolate to prevent this tragedy, I am very anxious that I should usethe knowledge which I possess in order to insure that justice be done.Will you associate me in your investigation, or will you prefer that Ishould act independently?"

　　"I should be proud to feel that we were acting together, Mr.Holmes," said the inspector, earnestly.

　　"In that case I should be glad to hear the evidence and to examinethe premises without an instant of unnecessary delay."

　　Inspector Martin had the good sense to allow my friend to dothings in his own fashion, and contented himself with carefully notingthe results. The local surgeon, an old, white-haired man, had justcome down from Mrs. Hilton Cubitt's room, and he reported that herinjuries were serious, but not necessarily fatal. The bullet hadpassed through the front of her brain, and it would probably be sometime before she could regain consciousness. On the question of whethershe had been shot or had shot herself, he would not venture to expressany decided opinion. Certainly the bullet had been discharged atvery close quarters. There was only the one pistol found in theroom, two barrels of which had been emptied. Mr. Hilton Cubitt hadbeen shot through the heart. It was equally conceivable that he hadshot her and then himself, or that she had been the criminal, forthe revolver lay upon the floor midway between them.

　　"Has he been moved?" asked Holmes.

　　"We have moved nothing except the lady. We could not leave her lyingwounded upon the floor."

　　"How long have you been here, Doctor?"

　　"Since four o'clock."

　　"Anyone else?"

　　"Yes, the constable here."

　　"And you have touched nothing?"

　　"Nothing."

　　"You have acted with great discretion. Who sent for you?""The housemaid, Saunders."

　　"Was it she who gave the alarm?"

　　"She and Mrs. King, the cook."

　　"Where are they now?"

　　"In the kitchen, I believe."

　　"Then I think we had better hear their story at once."

　　The old hall, oak-panelled and high-windowed, had been turned into acourt of investigation. Holmes sat in a great, old-fashioned chair,his inexorable eyes gleaming out of his haggard face. I could readin them a set purpose to devote his life to this quest until theclient whom he had failed to save should at last be avenged. Thetrim Inspector Martin, the old, gray-headed country doctor, myself,and a stolid village policeman made up the rest of that strangecompany.

　　The two women told their story clearly enough. They had been arousedfrom their sleep by the sound of an explosion, which had been followeda minute later by a second one. They slept in adjoining rooms, andMrs. King had rushed in to Saunders. Together they had descended thestairs. The door of the study was open, and a candle was burningupon the table. Their master lay upon his face in the centre of theroom. He was quite dead. Near the window his wife was crouching, herhead leaning against the wall. She was horribly wounded, and theside of her face was red with blood. She breathed heavily, but wasincapable of saying anything. The passage, as well as the room, wasfull of smoke and the smell of powder. The window was certainly shutand fastened upon the inside. Both women were positive upon the point.They had at once sent for the doctor and for the constable. Then, withthe aid of the groom and the stable-boy, they had conveyed theirinjured mistress to her room. Both she and her husband had occupiedthe bed. She was clad in her dress- he in his dressing-gown, overhis night-clothes. Nothing had been moved in the study. So far as theyknew, there had never been any quarrel between husband and wife.They had always looked upon them as a very united couple.These were the main points of the servants' evidence. In answer toInspector Martin, they were clear that every door was fastened uponthe inside, and that no one could have escaped from the house. Inanswer to Holmes, they both remembered that they were conscious of thesmell of powder from the moment that they ran out of their roomsupon the top floor. "I commend that fact very carefully to yourattention," said Holmes to his professional colleague. "And now Ithink that we are in a position to undertake a thorough examination ofthe room."

　　The study proved to be a small chamber, lined on three sides withbooks, and with a writing-table facing an ordinary window, whichlooked out upon the garden. Our first attention was given to thebody of the unfortunate squire, whose huge frame lay stretchedacross the room. His disordered dress showed that he had beenhastily aroused from sleep. The bullet had been fired at him fromthe front, and had remained in his body, after penetrating theheart. His death had certainly been instantaneous and painless.There was no powder-marking either upon his dressing-gown or on hishands. According to the country surgeon, the lady had stains uponher face, but none upon her hand.

　　"The absence of the latter means nothing, though its presence maymean everything," said Holmes. "Unless the powder from a badly fittingcartridge happens to spurt backward, one may fire many shots withoutleaving a sign. I would suggest that Mr. Cubitt's body may now beremoved. I suppose, Doctor, you have not recovered the bullet whichwounded the lady?"

　　"A serious operation will be necessary before that can be done.But there are still four cartridges in the revolver. Two have beenfired and two wounds inflicted, so that each bullet can be accountedfor."

　　"So it would seem," said Holmes. "Perhaps you can account also forthe bullet which has so obviously struck the edge of the window?"He had turned suddenly, and his long, thin finger was pointing toa hole which had been drilled right through the lower window-sash,about an inch above the bottom.

　　"By George!" cried the inspector. "How ever did you see that?""Because I looked for it."

　　"Wonderful!" said the country doctor. "You are certainly right, sir.Then a third shot has been fired, and therefore a third person musthave been present. But who could that have been, and how could he havegot away?"

　　"That is the problem which we are now about to solve," said SherlockHolmes. "You remember, Inspector Martin, when the servants said thaton leaving their room they were at once conscious of a smell ofpowder, I remarked that the point was an extremely important one?""Yes, sir; but I confess I did not quite follow you."

　　"It suggested that at the time of the firing, the window as wellas the door of the room had been open. Otherwise the fumes of powdercould not have been blown so rapidly through the house. A draught inthe room was necessary for that. Both door and window were only openfor a very short time, however."

　　"How do you prove that?"

　　"Because the candle was not guttered."

　　"Capital!" cried the inspector. "Capital!

　　"Feeling sure that the window had been open at the time of thetragedy, I conceived that there might have been a third person inthe affair, who stood outside this opening and fired through it. Anyshot directed at this person might hit the sash. I looked, andthere, sure enough, was the bullet mark!"

　　"But how came the window to be shut and fastened?"

　　"The woman's first instinct would be to shut and fasten thewindow. But, halloa! What is this?"

　　It was a lady's hand-bag which stood upon the study table- a trimlittle handbag of crocodile-skin and silver. Holmes opened it andturned the contents out. There were twenty fifty-pound notes of theBank of England, held together by an india-rubber band- nothing else."This must be preserved, for it will figure in the trial" saidHolmes, as he handed the bag with its contents to the inspector. "Itis now necessary that we should try to throw some light upon thisthird bullet, which has clearly, from the splintering of the wood,been fired from inside the room. I should like to see Mrs. King, thecook, again. You said, Mrs. King, that you were awakened by a loudexplosion. When you said that, did you mean that it seemed to you tobe louder than the second one?"

　　"Well, sir, it wakened me from my sleep, so it is hard to judge. Butit did seem very loud."

　　"You don't think that it might have been two shots fired almost atthe same instant?"

　　"I am sure I couldn't say, sir."

　　"I believe that it was undoubtedly so. I rather think, InspectorMartin, that we have now exhausted all that this room can teach us. Ifyou will kindly step round with me, we shall see what fresh evidencethe garden has to offer."

　　A flower-bed extended up to the study window, and we all brokeinto an exclamation as we approached it. The flowers were trampleddown, and the soft soil was imprinted all over with footmarks.Large, masculine feet they were, with peculiarly long, sharp toes.Holmes hunted about among the grass and leaves like a retrieverafter a wounded bird. Then, with a cry of satisfaction, he bentforward and picked up a little brazen cylinder.

　　"I thought so," said he, "the revolver had an ejector, and here isthe third cartridge. I really think, Inspector Martin, that our caseis almost complete."

　　The country inspector's face had shown his intense amazement atthe rapid and masterful progress of Holmes's investigation. At firsthe had shown some disposition to assert his own position, but now hewas overcome with admiration, and ready to follow without questionwherever Holmes led.

　　"Whom do you suspect?" he asked.

　　"I'll go into that later. There are several points in this problemwhich I have not been able to explain to you yet. Now that I havegot so far, I had best proceed on my own lines, and then clear thewhole matter up once and for all."

　　"Just as you wish, Mr. Holmes, so long as we get our man.""I have no desire to make mysteries, but it is impossible at themoment of action to enter into long and complex explanations. I havethe threads of this affair all in my hand. Even if this lady shouldnever recover consciousness, we can still reconstruct the events oflast night and insure that justice be done. First of all, I wish toknow whether there is any inn in this neighbourhood known as`Elrige's'?"

　　The servants were cross-questioned, but none of them had heard ofsuch a place. The stable-boy threw a light upon the matter byremembering that a farmer of that name lived some miles off, in thedirection of East Ruston.

　　"Is it a lonely farm?"

　　"Very lonely, sir."

　　"Perhaps they have not heard yet of all that happened here duringthe night?"

　　"Maybe not, sir."

　　Holmes thought for a little, and then a curious smile played overhis face.

　　"Saddle a horse, my lad," said he. "I shall wish you to take anote to Elrige's Farm."

　　He took from his pocket the various slips of the dancing men. Withthese in front of him, he worked for some time at the study-table.Finally he handed a note to the boy, with directions to put it intothe hands of the person to whom it was addressed, and especially toanswer no questions of any sort which might be put to him. I saw theoutside of the note, addressed in straggling, irregular characters,very unlike Holmes's usual precise hand. It was consigned to Mr. AbeSlaney, Elriges Farm, East Ruston, Norfolk.

　　"I think, Inspector," Holmes remarked, "that you would do well totelegraph for an escort, as, if my calculations prove to be correct,you may have a particularly dangerous prisoner to convey to the countyjail. The boy who takes this note could no doubt forward yourtelegram. If there is an afternoon train to town, Watson, I think weshould do well to take it, as I have a chemical analysis of someinterest to finish, and this investigation draws rapidly to a close."When the youth had been dispatched with the note, Sherlock Holmesgave his instructions to the servants. If any visitor were to callasking for Mrs. Hilton Cubitt, no information should be given as toher condition, but he was to be shown at once into the drawing-room.He impressed these points upon them with the utmost earnestness.Finally he led the way into the drawing-room, with the remark that thebusiness was now out of our hands, and that we must while away thetime as best we might until we could see what was in store for us. Thedoctor had departed to his patients, and only the inspector and myselfremained.

　　"I think that I can help you to pass an hour in an interesting andprofitable manner," said Holmes, drawing his chair up to the table,and spreading out in front of him the various papers upon which wererecorded the antics of the dancing men. "As to you, friend Watson, Iowe you every atonement for having allowed your natural curiosity toremain so long unsatisfied. To you, Inspector, the whole incidentmay appeal as a remarkable professional study. I must tell you,first of all, the interesting circumstances connected with theprevious consultations which Mr. Hilton Cubitt has had with me inBaker Street." He then shortly recapitulated the facts which havealready been recorded. "I have here in front of me these singularproductions, at which one might smile, had they not provedthemselves to be the forerunners of so terrible a tragedy. I am fairlyfamiliar with all forms of secret writings, and am myself the authorof a trifling monograph upon the subject, in which I analyze onehundred and sixty separate ciphers, but I confess that this isentirely new to me. The object of those who invented the system hasapparently been to conceal that these characters convey a message, andto give the idea that they are the mere random sketches of children."Having once recognized, however, that the symbols stood forletters, and having applied the rules which guide us in all forms ofsecret writings, the solution was easy enough. The first messagesubmitted to me was so short that it was impossible for me to domore than to say, with some confidence, that the symbol [of the stickmanwith both arms extended up in the air]

　　stood for E. As you are aware, E is the most common letter in theEnglish alphabet, and it predominates to so marked an extent that evenin a short sentence one would expect to find it most often. Out offifteen symbols in the first message, four were the same, so it wasreasonable to set this down as E. It is true that in some cases thefigure was bearing a flag, and in some cases not but it wasprobable, from the way in which the flags were distributed, thatthey were used to break the sentence up into words. I accepted this asa hypothesis, and noted that E was represented by [the stickman withboth arms extended up in the air]

　　"But now came the real difficulty of the inquiry. The order of theEnglish letters after E is by no means well marked, and anypreponderance which may be shown in an average of a printed sheetmay be reversed in a single short sentence. Speaking roughly, T, A, O,I, N, S, H, R, D, and L are the numerical order in which lettersoccur, but T, A, O, and I are very nearly abreast of each other, andit would be an endless task to try each combination until a meaningwas arrived at I therefore waited for fresh material. In my secondinterview with Mr. Hilton Cubitt he was able to give me two othershort sentences and one message, which appeared- since there was noflag- to be a single word. Here are the symbols. Now, in the singleword I have already got the two E's coming second and fourth in a wordof five letters. It might be `sever,' or `lever,' or `never.' Therecan be no question that the latter as a reply to an appeal is farthe most probable, and the circumstances pointed to its being areply written by the lady. Accepting it as correct, we are now able tosay that the symbols [of the stickman with right hand on his hip, leftarm raised and knees bent, stickman with leg extended to the left, andstickman with both arms raised in the air and left leg extended.]stand respectively for N, V, and R.

　　"Even now I was in considerable difficulty, but a happy thoughtput me in possession of several other letters. It occurred to methat if these appeals came, as I expected, from someone who had beenintimate with the lady in her early life, a combination whichcontained two E's with three letters between might very well stand forthe name `ELSIE.' On examination I found that such a combinationformed the termination of the message which was three timesrepeated. It was certainly some appeal to `Elsie.' In this way I hadgot my L, S, and I. But what appeal could it be? There were onlyfour letters in the word which preceded `Elsie,' and it ended in E.Surely the word must be `COME.' I tried all other four lettersending in E, but could find none to fit the case. So now I was inpossession of C, O, and M, and I was in a position to attack the firstmessage once more, dividing it into words and putting dots for eachsymbol which was still unknown. So treated, it worked out in thisfashion:

　　. M . ERE .. E SL . NE.

　　"Now the first letter can only be A, which is a most usefuldiscovery, since it occurs no fewer than three times in this shortsentence, and the H is also apparent in the second word. Now itbecomes:

　　AM HERE A . E SLANE.

　　Or, filling in the obvious vacancies in the name:

　　AM HERE ABE SLANEY.

　　I had so many letters now that I could proceed with considerableconfidence to the second message, which worked out in this fashion:A . ELRI . ES.

　　Here I could only make sense by putting T and G for the missingletters, and supposing that the name was that of some house or innat which the writer was staying."

　　Inspector Martin and I had listened with the utmost interest tothe full and clear account of how my friend had produced results whichhad led to so complete a command over our difficulties."What did you do then, sir?" asked the inspector.

　　"I had every reason to suppose that this Abe Slaney was an American,since Abe is an American contraction, and since a letter fromAmerica had been the starting-point of all the trouble. I had alsoevery cause to think that there was some criminal secret in thematter. The lady's allusions to her past, and her refusal to takeher husband into her confidence, both pointed in that direction. Itherefore cabled to my friend, Wilson Hargreave, of the New YorkPolice Bureau, who has more than once made use of my knowledge ofLondon crime. I asked him whether the name of Abe Slaney was knownto him. Here is his reply: `The most dangerous crook in Chicago.' Onthe very evening upon which I had his answer, Hilton Cubitt sent methe last message from Slaney. Working with known letters, it took thisform:

　　ELSIE . RE . ARE TO MEET THY GO.

　　The addition of a P and a D completed a message which showed me thatthe rascal was proceeding from persuasion to threats, and my knowledgeof the crooks of Chicago prepared me to find that he might veryrapidly put his words into action. I at once came to Norfolk with myfriend and colleague, Dr. Watson, but, unhappily, only in time to findthat the worst had already occurred."

　　"It is a privilege to be associated with you in the handling of acase," said the inspector, warmly. "You will excuse me, however, ifI speak frankly to you. You are only answerable to yourself, but Ihave to answer to my superiors. If this Abe Slaney, living atElrige's, is indeed the murderer, and if he has made his escapewhile I am seated here, I should certainly get into serious trouble.""You need not be uneasy. He will not try to escape."

　　"How do you know?"

　　"To fly would be a confession of guilt."

　　"Then let us go arrest him."

　　"I expect him here every instant."

　　"But why should he come."

　　"Because I have written and asked him."

　　"But this is incredible, Mr. Holmes! Why should he come becauseyou have asked him? Would not such a request rather rouse hissuspicions and cause him to fly?"

　　"I think I have known how to frame the letter," said SherlockHolmes. "In fact, if I am not very much mistaken, here is thegentleman himself coming up the drive."

　　A man striding up the path which led to the door. He was a tall,handsome, swarthy fellow, clad in a suit of flannel, with a Panamahat, a bristling black beard, and a great, aggressive hooked nose, andflourishing a cane as he walked. He swaggered up a path as if as ifthe place belonged to him, and we heard his loud, confident peal atthe bell.

　　"I think, gentlemen," said Holmes, quietly, "that we had best takeup our position behind the door. Every precaution is necessary whendealing with such a fellow. You will need your handcuffs, Inspector.You can leave the talking to me."

　　We waited in silence for a minute- one of those minutes which onecan never forget. Then the door opened and the man stepped in. In aninstant Holmes clapped a pistol to his head, and Martin slipped thehandcuffs over his wrists. It was all done so swiftly and deftlythat the fellow was helpless before he knew that he was attacked. Heglared from one to the other of us with a pair of blazing blackeyes. Then he burst into a bitter laugh.

　　"Well, gentlemen, you have the drop on me this time. I seem tohave knocked up against something hard. But I came here in answer to aletter from Mrs. Hilton Cubitt. Don't tell me that she is in this?Don't tell me that she helped to set a trap for me?"

　　"Mrs. Hilton Cubitt was seriously injured, and is at death's door."The man gave a hoarse cry of grief, which rang through the house."You're crazy!" he cried, fiercely. "It was he that was hurt, notshe. Who would have hurt little Elsie? I may have threatened her-God forgive me!- but I would not have touched a hair of her prettyhead. Take it back- you! Say that she is not hurt!"

　　"She was found badly wounded, by the side of her dead husband."He sank with a deep groan on the settee and buried his face in hismanacled hands. For five minutes he was silent. Then he raised hisface once more, and spoke with the cold composure of despair."I have nothing to hide from you, gentlemen," said he. "If I shotthe man he had his shot at me, and there's no murder in that. But ifyou think I could have hurt that woman, then you don't know eitherme or her. I tell you, there was never a man in this world loved awoman more than I loved her. I had a right to her. She was pledgedto me years ago. Who was this Englishman that he should come betweenus? I tell you that I had the first right to her, and that I wasonly claiming my own.

　　"She broke away from your influence when she found the man thatyou are," said Holmes, sternly. "She fled from America to avoid you,and she married an honourable gentleman in England. You dogged her andfollowed her and made her life a misery to her, in order to induce herto abandon the husband whom she loved and respected in order to flywith you, whom she feared and hated. You have ended by bringingabout the death of a noble man and driving his wife to suicide. Thatis your record in this business, Mr. Abe Slaney, and you will answerfor it to the law."

　　"If Elsie dies, I care nothing what becomes of me," said theAmerican. He opened one of his hands, and looked at a note crumpled upin his palm. "See here, mister! he cried, with a gleam of suspicion inhis eyes, "you're not trying to scare me over this, are you? If thelady is hurt as bad as you say, who was it that wrote this note?" Hetossed it forward on to the table.

　　"I wrote it, to bring you here."

　　"You wrote it? There was no one on earth outside the Joint whoknew the secret of the dancing men. How came you to write it?""What one man can invent another can discover," said Holmes. Thereis a cab coming to convey you to Norwich, Mr. Slaney. But meanwhile,you have time to make some small reparation for the injury you havewrought. Are you aware that Mrs. Hilton Cubitt has herself lainunder grave suspicion of the murder of her husband, and that it wasonly my presence here, and the knowledge which I happened topossess, which has saved her from the accusation? The least that youowe her is to make it clear to the whole world that she was in no way,directly or indirectly, responsible for his tragic end.""I ask nothing better," said the American. "I guess the very bestcase I can make for myself is the absolute naked truth.""It is my duty to warn you that it will be used against you,"cried the inspector, with the magnificent fair play of the Britishcriminal law.

　　Slaney shrugged his shoulders.

　　"I'll chance that," said he. "First of all, I want you gentlemento understand that I have known this lady since she was a child. Therewere seven of us in a gang in Chicago, and Elsie's father was the bossof the Joint. He was a clever man, was old Patrick. It was he whoinvented that writing, which would pass as a child's scrawl unless youjust happened to have the key to it. Well, Elsie learned some of ourways, but she couldn't stand the business, and she had a bit of honestmoney of her own, so she gave us all the slip and got away toLondon. She had been engaged to me, and she would have married me, Ibelieve, if I had taken over another profession, but she would havenothing to do with anything on the cross. It was only after hermarriage to this Englishman that I was able to find out where she was.I wrote to her, but got no answer. After that I came over, and, asletters were no use, I put my messages where she could read them."Well, I have been here a month now. I lived in that farm, where Ihad a room down below, and could get in and out every night, and noone the wiser. I tried all I could to coax Elsie away. I knew that sheread the messages, for once she wrote an answer under one of them.Then my temper got the better of me, and I began to threaten her.She sent me a letter then, imploring me to go away, and saying that itwould break her heart if any scandal should come upon her husband. Shesaid that she would come down when her husband was asleep at threein the morning, and speak with me through the end window, if I wouldgo away afterwards and leave her in peace. She came down and broughtmoney with her, trying to bribe me to go. This made me mad, and Icaught her arm and tried to pull her through the window. At thatmoment in rushed the husband with his revolver in his hand. Elsiehad sunk down upon the floor, and we were face to face. I was heeledalso, and I held up my gun to scare him off and let me get away. Hefired and missed me. I pulled off almost at the same instant, and downhe dropped. I made away across the garden, and as I went I heard thewindow shut behind me. That's God's truth, gentlemen, every word ofit, and I heard no more about it until that lad came riding up witha note which made me walk in here, like a jay, and give myself intoyour hands."

　　A cab had driven up whilst the American had been talking. Twouniformed policemen sat inside. Inspector Martin rose and touchedhis prisoner on the shoulder.

　　"It is time for us to go."

　　"Can I see her first?"

　　"No, she is not conscious. Mr. Sherlock Holmes, I only hope thatif ever again I have an important case, I shall have the goodfortune to have you by my side."

　　We stood at the window and watched the cab drive away. As I turnedback, my eye caught the pellet of paper which the prisoner hadtossed upon the table. It was the note with which Holmes had decoyedhim.

　　"See if you can read it, Watson," said he, with a smile.It contained no word, but this little line of dancing men:(See illustration.)

　　"If you use the code which I have explained," said Holmes, "you willfind that it simply means `Come here at once.' I was convinced that itwas an invitation which he would not refuse, since he could neverimagine that it could come from anyone but the lady. And so, my dearWatson, we have ended by turning the dancing men to good when theyhave so often been the agents of evil, and I think that I havefulfilled my promise of giving you something unusual for yournotebook. Three-forty is our train, and I fancy we should be back inBaker Street for dinner."

　　Only one word of epilogue. The American, Abe Slaney, was condemnedto death at the winter assizes at Norwich, but his penalty was changedto penal servitude in consideration of mitigating circumstances, andthe certainty that Hilton Cubitt had fired the first shot. Of Mrs.Hilton Cubitt I only know that I have heard she recovered entirely,and that she still, remains a widow, devoting her whole life to thecare of the poor and to the administration of her husband's estate.-THE END-

　　.

　　1910

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE DEVIL'S FOOT

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　In recording from time to time some of the curious experiences andinteresting recollections which I associate with my long andintimate friendship with Mr. Sherlock Holmes, I have continuallybeen faced by difficulties caused by his own aversion to publicity. Tohis sombre and cynical spirit all popular applause was alwaysabhorrent, and nothing amused him more at the end of a successful casethan to hand over the actual exposure to some orthodox official, andto listen with a mocking smile to the general chorus of misplacedcongratulation. It was indeed this attitude upon the part of my friendand certainly not any lack of interesting material which has caused meof late years to lay very few of my records before the public. Myparticipation in some of his adventures was always a privilege whichentailed discretion and reticence upon me.

　　It was, then, with considerable surprise that I received atelegram from Holmes last Tuesday- he has never been known to writewhere a telegram would serve- in the following terms:

　　Why not tell them of the Cornish horror-strangest case I havehandled.

　　I have no idea what backward sweep of memory had brought the matterfresh to his mind, or what freak had caused him to desire that Ishould recount it; but I hasten, before another cancelling telegrammay arrive, to hunt out the notes which give me the exact details ofthe case and to lay the narrative before my readers.

　　It was, then, in the spring of the year 1897 that Holmes's ironconstitution showed some symptoms of giving way in the face ofconstant hard work of a most exacting kind, aggravated, perhaps, byoccasional indiscretions of his own. In March of that year Dr. MooreAgar, of Harley Street, whose dramatic introduction to Holmes I maysome day recount, gave positive injunctions that the famous privateagent lay aside all his cases and surrender himself to complete restif he wished to avert an absolute breakdown. The state of his healthwas not a matter in which he himself took the faintest interest, forhis mental detachment was absolute, but he was induced at last, on thethreat of being permanently disqualified from work, to give himselfa complete change of scene and air. Thus it was that in the earlyspring of that year we found ourselves together in a small cottagenear Poldhu Bay, at the further extremity of the Cornish peninsula.It was a singular spot, and one peculiarly well suited to the grimhumour of my patient. From the windows of our little whitewashedhouse, which stood high upon a grassy headland, we looked down uponthe whole sinister semicircle of Mounts Bay, that old death trap ofsailing vessels, with its fringe of black cliffs and surge swept reefson which innumerable seamen have met their end. With a northerlybreeze it lies placid and sheltered, inviting the storm-tossed craftto tick into it for rest and protection.

　　Then come the sudden swirl round of the wind, the blustering galefrom the south-west, the dragging anchor, the lee shore, and thelast battle in the creaming breakers. The wise mariner stands farout from that evil place.

　　On the land side our surroundings were as sombre as on the sea. Itwas a country of rolling moors, lonely and dun-coloured, with anoccasional church tower to mark the site of some old-world village. Inevery direction upon these moors there were traces of some vanishedrace which had passed utterly away, and left as its sole recordstrange monuments of stone, irregular mounds which contained theburned ashes of the dead, and curious earthworks which hinted atprehistoric strife. The glamour and mystery of the place, with itssinister atmosphere of forgotten nations, appealed to theimagination of my friend, and he spent much of his time in longwalks and solitary meditations upon the moor. The ancient Cornishlanguage had also arrested his attention, and he had, I remember,conceived the idea that it was akin to the Chaldean, and had beenlargely derived from the Phoenician traders in tin. He had receiveda consignment of books upon philology and was settling down to developthis thesis when suddenly, to my sorrow and to his unfeigneddelight, we found ourselves, even in that land of dreams, plunged intoa problem at our very doors which was more intense, more engrossing,and infinitely more mysterious than any of those which had driven usfrom London. Our simple life and peaceful, healthy routine wereviolently interrupted, and we were precipitated into the midst of aseries of events which caused the utmost excitement not only inCornwall but throughout the whole west of England. Many of myreaders may retain some recollection of what was called at the time"The Cornish Horror," though a most imperfect account of the matterreached the London press. Now, after thirteen years, I will give thetrue details of this inconceivable affair to the public.I have said that scattered towers marked the villages which dottedthis part of Cornwall. The nearest of these was the hamlet ofTredannick Wollas, where the cottages of a couple of hundredinhabitants clustered round an ancient, moss-grown church. The vicarof the parish, Mr. Roundhay, was something of an archaeologist, and assuch Holmes had made his acquaintance. He was a middle-aged man,portly and affable, with a considerable fund of local lore. At hisinvitation we had taken tea at the vicarage and had come to know also,Mr. Mortimer Tregennis, an independent gentleman, who increased theclergyman's scanty resources by taking rooms in his large,straggling house. The vicar, being a bachelor, was glad to come tosuch an arrangement, though he had little in common with his lodger,who was a thin, dark, spectacled man, with a stoop which gave theimpression of actual, physical deformity. I remember that during ourshort visit we found the vicar garrulous, but his lodger strangelyreticent, a sad-faced, introspective man, sitting with averted eyes,brooding apparently upon his own affairs.

　　These were the two men who entered abruptly into our littlesitting-room on Tuesday, March the 16th, shortly after our breakfasthour, as we were smoking together, preparatory to our dailyexcursion upon the moors.

　　"Mr. Holmes," said the vicar in an agitated voice, "the mostextraordinary and tragic affair has occurred during the night. It isthe most unheard-of business. We can only regard it as a specialprovidence that you should chance to be here at the time, for in allEngland you are the one man we need."

　　I glared at the intrusive vicar with no very friendly eyes; butHolmes took his pipe from his lips and sat up in his chair like an oldhound who hears the view-halloa. He waved his hand to the sofa, andour palpitating visitor with his agitated companion sat side by sideupon it. Mr. Mortimer Tregennis was more self-contained than theclergyman, but the twitching of his thin hands and the brightness ofhis dark eyes showed that they shared a common emotion."Shall I speak or you?" he asked of the vicar.

　　"Well, as you seem to have made the discovery, whatever it may be,and the vicar to have had it second-hand, perhaps you had better dothe speaking," said Holmes.

　　I glanced at the hastily clad clergyman, with the formally dressedlodger seated beside him, and was amused at the surprise whichHolmes's simple deduction had brought to their faces.

　　"Perhaps I had best say a few words first," said the vicar, "andthen you can judge if you will listen to the details from Mr.Tregennis, or whether we should not hasten at once to the scene ofthis mysterious affair. I may explain, then, that our friend herespent last evening in the company of his two brothers, Owen andGeorge, and of his sister Brenda, at their house of Tredannick Wartha,which is near the old stone cross upon the moor. He left themshortly after ten o'clock, playing cards round the dining-roomtable, in excellent health and spirits. This morning, being an earlyriser, he walked in that direction before breakfast and wasovertaken by the carriage of Dr. Richards, who explained that he hadjust been sent for on a most urgent call to Tredannick Wartha. Mr.Mortimer Tregennis naturally went with him. When he arrived atTredannick Wartha he found an extraordinary state of things. His twobrothers and his sister were seated round the table exactly as hehad left them, the cards still spread in front of them and the candlesburned down to their sockets. The sister lay back stone-dead in herchair, while the two brothers sat on each side of her laughing,shouting, and singing, the senses stricken clean out of them. Allthree of them, the dead woman and the two demented men, retainedupon their faces an expression of the utmost horror- a convulsion ofterror which was dreadful to look upon. There was no sign of thepresence of anyone in the house, except Mrs. Porter, the old cookand housekeeper, who declared that she had slept deeply and heard nosound during the night. Nothing had been stolen or disarranged, andthere is absolutely no explanation of what the horror can be which hasfrightened a woman to death and two strong men out of their senses.There is the situation, Mr. Holmes, in a nutshell, and if you can helpus to clear it up you will have done a great work."

　　I had hoped that in some way I could coax my companion back into thequiet which had been the object of our journey; but one glance athis intense face and contracted eyebrows told me how vain was nowthe expectation. He sat for some little time in silence, absorbed inthe strange drama which had broken in upon our peace.

　　"I will look into this matter," he said at last. "On the face of it,it would appear to be a case of a very exceptional nature. Have youbeen there yourself, Mr. Roundhay?"

　　"No, Mr. Holmes. Mr. Tregennis brought back the account to thevicarage, and I at once hurried over with him to consult you.""How far is it to the house where this singular tragedy occurred?""About a mile inland."

　　"Then we shall walk over together. But before we start I must askyou a few questions, Mr. Mortimer Tregennis."

　　The other had been silent all this time, but I had observed that hismore controlled excitement was even greater than the obtrusive emotionof the clergyman. He sat with a pale, drawn face, his anxious gazefixed upon Holmes, and his thin hands clasped convulsively together.His pale lips quivered as he listened to the dreadful experience whichhad befallen his family, and his dark eyes seemed to reflect somethingof the horror of the scene.

　　"Ask what you like, Mr. Holmes," said he eagerly. "It is a bad thingto speak of, but I will answer you the truth."

　　"Tell me about last night."

　　"Well, Mr. Holmes, I supped there, as the vicar has said, and myelder brother George proposed a game of whist afterwards. We satdown about nine o'clock. It was a quarter-past ten when I moved to go.I left them all round the table, as merry as could be.""Who let you out?"

　　"Mrs. Porter had gone to bed, so I let himself out. I shut thehall door behind me. The window of the room in which they sat wasclosed, but the blind was not drawn down. There was no change indoor or window this morning, nor any reason to think that any strangerhad been to the house. Yet there they sat, driven clean mad withterror, and Brenda lying dead of fright, with her head hanging overthe arm of the chair. I'll never get the sight of that room out ofmy mind so long as I live."

　　"The facts, as you state them, are certainly most remarkable,"said Holmes. "I take it that you have no theory yourself which canin any way account for them?"

　　"It's devilish, Mr. Holmes, devilish!" cried Mortimer Tregennis. "Itis not of this world. Something has come into that room which hasdashed the light of reason from their minds. What human contrivancecould do that?"

　　"I fear," said Holmes, "that if the matter is beyond humanity itis certainly beyond me. Yet we must exhaust all natural explanationsbefore we fall back upon such a theory as this. As to yourself, Mr.Tregennis, I take it you were divided in some way from your family,since they lived together and you had rooms apart?"

　　"That is so, Mr. Holmes, though the matter is past and done with. Wewere a family of tin-miners at Redruth, but we sold out our venture toa company, and so retired with enough to keep us. I won't deny thatthere was some feeling about the division of the money and it stoodbetween us for a time, but it was all forgiven and forgotten, and wewere the best of friends together."

　　"Looking back at the evening which you spent together, does anythingstand out in your memory as throwing any possible light upon thetragedy? Think carefully, Mr. Tregennis, for any clue which can helpme."

　　"There is nothing at all, sir."

　　"Your people were in their usual spirits?"

　　"Never better."

　　"Were they nervous people? Did they ever show any apprehension ofcoming danger?"

　　"Nothing of the kind."

　　"You have nothing to add then, which could assist me?"

　　Mortimer Tregennis considered earnestly for a moment.

　　"There is one thing occurs to me," said he at last. "As we sat atthe table my back was to the window, and my brother George, he beingmy partner at cards, was facing it. I saw him once look hard over myshoulder, so I turned round and looked also. The blind was up andthe window shut, but I could just make out the bushes on the lawn, andit seemed to me for a moment that I saw something moving among them. Icouldn't even say if it was man or animal, but I just thought therewas something there. When I asked him what he was looking at, hetold me that he had the same feeling. That is all that I can say.""Did you not investigate?"

　　"No; the matter passed as unimportant."

　　"You left them, then, without any premonition of evil?""None at all."

　　"I am not clear how you came to hear the news so early thismorning."

　　"I am an early riser and generally take a walk before breakfast.This morning I had hardly started when the doctor in his carriageovertook me. He told me that old Mrs. Porter had sent a boy downwith an urgent message. I sprang in beside him and we drove on. Whenwe got there we looked into that dreadful room. The candles and thefire must have burned out hours before, and they had been sittingthere in the dark until dawn had broken. The doctor said Brenda musthave been dead at least six hours. There were no signs of violence.She just lay across the arm of the chair with that look on her face.George and Owen were singing snatches of songs and gibbering liketwo great apes. Oh, it was awful to see! I couldn't stand it, andthe doctor was as white as a sheet. Indeed, he fell into a chair ina sort of faint, and we nearly had him on our hands as well.""Remarkable- most remarkable!" said Holmes, rising and taking hishat. "I think, perhaps, we had better go down to Tredannick Warthawithout further delay. I confess that I have seldom known a case whichat first sight presented a more singular problem."

　　Our proceedings of that first morning did little to advance theinvestigation. It was marked, however, at the outset by an incidentwhich left the most sinister impression upon my mind. The approachto the spot at which the tragedy occurred is down a narrow, winding,country lane, While we made our way along it we heard the rattle ofa carriage coming towards us and stood aside to let it pass. As itdrove by us I caught a glimpse through the closed window of a horriblycontorted, grinning face glaring out at us. Those staring eyes andgnashing teeth flashed past us like a dreadful vision.

　　"My brothers!" cried Mortimer Tregennis, white to his lips. "Theyare taking them to Helston."

　　We looked with horror after the black carriage, lumbering upon itsway. Then we turned our steps towards this ill-omened house in whichthey had met their strange fate.

　　It was a large and bright dwelling, rather a villa than a cottage,with a considerable garden which was already, in that Cornish air,well filled with spring flowers. Towards this garden the window of thesitting-room fronted, and from it, according to Mortimer Tregennis,must have come that thing of evil which had by sheer horror in asingle instant blasted their minds. Holmes walked slowly andthoughtfully among the flower-plots and along the path before weentered the porch. So absorbed was he in his thoughts, I remember,that he stumbled over the watering-pot, upset its contents, anddeluged both our feet and the garden path. Inside the house we weremet by the elderly Cornish housekeeper, Mrs, Porter, who, with the aidof a young girl, looked after the wants of the family. She readilyanswered all Holmes's questions. She had heard nothing in the night.Her employers had all been in excellent spirits lately, and she hadnever known them more cheerful and prosperous. She had fainted withhorror upon entering the room in the morning and seeing thatdreadful company round the table. She had, when she recovered,thrown open the window to let the morning air in, and had run downto the lane, whence she sent a farm-lad for the doctor. The lady wason her bed upstairs if we cared to see her. It took four strong men toget the brothers into the asylum carriage. She would not herselfstay in the house another day and was starting that very afternoonto rejoin her family at St. Ives.

　　We ascended the stairs and viewed the body. Miss Brenda Tregennishad been a very beautiful girl, though now verging upon middle age.Her dark, clear-cut face was handsome, even in death, but therestill lingered upon it something of that convulsion of horror whichhad been her last human emotion. From her bedroom we descended tothe sitting-room, where this strange tragedy had actually occurred.The charred ashes of the overnight fire lay in the grate. On the tablewere the four guttered and burned-out candles, with the cardsscattered over its surface. The chairs had been moved back against thewalls, but all else was as it had been the night before. Holmespaced with light, swift steps about the room; he sat in the variouschairs, drawing them up and reconstructing their positions. Hetested how much of the garden was visible; he examined the floor,the ceiling, and the fireplace; but never once did I see that suddenbrightening of his eyes and tightening of his lips which would havetold me that he saw some gleam of light in this utter darkness."Why a fire?" he asked once. "Had they always a fire in this smallroom on a spring evening?"

　　Mortimer Tregennis explained that the night was cold and damp. Forthat reason, after his arrival, the fire was lit. "What are yougoing to do now, Mr. Holmes?" he asked.

　　My friend smiled and laid his hand upon my arm. "I think, Watson,that I shall resume that course of tobacco-poisoning which you have sooften and so justly condemned," said he. "With your permission,gentlemen, we will now return to our cottage, for I am not awarethat any new factor is likely to come to our notice here. I willturn the facts over in my mind, Mr. Tregennis, and should anythingoccur to me I will certainly communicate with you and the vicar. Inthe meantime I wish you both good-morning."

　　It was not until long after we were back in Poldhu Cottage thatHolmes broke his complete and absorbed silence. He sat coiled in hisarmchair, his haggard and ascetic face hardly visible amid the blueswirl of his tobacco smoke, his black brows drawn down, his foreheadcontracted, his eyes vacant and far away. Finally he laid down hispipe and sprang to his feet.

　　"It won't do, Watson!" said he with a laugh. "Let us walk alongthe cliffs together and search for flint arrows. We are more likely tofind them than clues to this problem. To let the brain work withoutsufficient material is like racing an engine. It racks itself topieces. The sea air, sunshine, and patience, Watson- all else willcome.

　　"Now, let us calmly define our position, Watson," he continued as weskirted the cliffs together. "Let us get a firm grip of the verylittle which we do know, so that when fresh facts arise we may beready to fit them into their places. I take it, in the first place,that neither of us is prepared to admit diabolical intrusions into theaffairs of men. Let us begin by ruling that entirely out of our minds.Very good. There remain three persons who have been grievouslystricken by some conscious or unconscious human agency. That is firmground. Now, where did this occur? Evidently, assuming his narrativeto be true, it was immediately after Mr. Mortimer Tregennis had leftthe room. That is a very important point. The presumption is that itwas within a few minutes afterwards. The cards still lay upon thetable. It was already past their usual hour for bed. Yet they hadnot changed their position or pushed back their chairs. I repeat,then, that the occurrence was immediately after his departure, and notlater than eleven o'clock last night.

　　"Our next obvious step is to check, so far as we can, themovements of Mortimer Tregennis after he left the room. In thisthere is no difficulty, and they seem to be above suspicion. Knowingmy methods as you do, you were, of course, conscious of the somewhatclumsy water-pot expedient by which I obtained a clearer impress ofhis foot than might otherwise have been possible. The wet, sandypath took it admirably. Last night was also wet, you will remember,and it was not difficult- having obtained a sample print- to pickout his track among others and to follow his movements. He appearsto have walked away swiftly in the direction of the vicarage."If, then, Mortimer Tregennis disappeared from the scene, and yetsome outside person affected the cardplayers, how can we reconstructthat person, and how was such an impression of horror conveyed? Mrs.Porter may be eliminated. She is evidently harmless. Is there anyevidence that someone crept up to the garden window and in some mannerproduced so terrific an effect that he drove those who saw it out oftheir senses? The only suggestion in this direction comes fromMortimer Tregennis himself, who says that his brother spoke about somemovement in the garden. That is certainly remarkable, as the night wasrainy, cloudy, and dark. Anyone who had the design to alarm thesepeople would be compelled to place his very face against the glassbefore he could be seen. There is a three-foot flower-border outsidethis window, but no indication of a footmark. It is difficult toimagine, then, how an outsider could have made so terrible animpression upon the company, nor have we found any possible motive forso strange and elaborate an attempt. You perceive our difficulties,Watson?"

　　"They are only too clear," I answered with conviction.

　　"And yet, with a little more material, we may prove that they arenot insurmountable," said Holmes. "I fancy that among your extensivearchives, Watson, you may find some which were nearly as obscure.Meanwhile, we shall put the case aside until more accurate data areavailable, and devote the rest of our morning to the pursuit ofneolithic man."

　　I may have commented upon my friend's power of mental detachment,but never have I wondered at it more than upon that spring morningin Cornwall when for two hours he discoursed upon celts, arrowheads,and shards, as lightly as if no sinister mystery were waiting forhis solution. It was not until we had returned in the afternoon to ourcottage that we found a visitor awaiting us, who soon brought ourminds back to the matter in hand. Neither of us needed to be toldwho that visitor was. The huge body, the craggy and deeply seamed facewith the fierce eyes and hawk-like nose, the grizzled hair whichnearly brushed our cottage ceiling, the beard- golden at the fringesand white near the lips, save for the nicotine stain from hisperpetual cigar- all these were as well known in London as inAfrica, and could only be associated with the tremendous personalityof Dr. Leon Sterndale, the great lion-hunter and explorer.We had heard of his presence in the district and had once or twicecaught sight of his tall figure upon the moorland paths. He made noadvances to us, however, nor would we have dreamed of doing so to him,as it was well known that it was his love of seclusion which causedhim to spend the greater part of the intervals between his journeys ina small bungalow buried in the lonely wood of Beauchamp Arriance.Here, amid his books and his maps, he lived an absolutely lonely life,attending to his own simple wants and paying little apparent heed tothe affairs of his neighbours. It was a surprise to me, therefore,to hear him asking Holmes in an eager voice whether he had made anyadvance in his reconstruction of this mysterious episode. "Thecounty police are utterly at fault," said he, "but perhaps yourwider experience has suggested some conceivable explanation. My onlyclaim to being taken into your confidence is that during my manyresidences here I have come to know this family of Tregennis verywell- indeed, upon my Cornish mother's side I could call them cousins-and their strange fate has naturally been a great shock to me. I maytell you that I had got as far as Plymouth upon my way to Africa,but the news reached me this morning, and I came straight back againto help in the inquiry."

　　Holmes raised his eyebrows.

　　"Did you lose your boat through it?"

　　"I will take the next."

　　"Dear me! that is friendship indeed."

　　"I tell you they were relatives."

　　"Quite so- cousins of your mother. Was your baggage aboard theship?"

　　"Some of it, but the main part at the hotel."

　　"I see. But surely this event could not have found its way intothe Plymouth morning papers."

　　"No, sir; I had a telegram."

　　"Might I ask from whom?"

　　A shadow passed over the gaunt face of the explorer.

　　"You are very inquisitive, Mr. Holmes."

　　"It is my business."

　　With an effort Dr. Sterndale recovered his ruffled composure."I have no objection to telling you," he said. "It was Mr. Roundhay,the vicar, who sent me the telegram which recalled me.""Thank you," said Holmes. "I may say in answer to your originalquestion that I have not cleared my mind entirely on the subject ofthis case, but that I have every hope of reaching some conclusion.It would be premature to say more."

　　"Perhaps you would not mind telling me if your suspicions point inany particular direction?"

　　"No, I can hardly answer that."

　　"Then I have wasted my time and need not prolong my visit." Thefamous doctor strode out of our cottage in considerable ill-humour,and within five minutes Holmes had followed him. I saw him no moreuntil the evening, when he returned with a slow step and haggardface which assured me that he had made no great progress with hisinvestigation. He glanced at a telegram which awaited him and threw itinto the grate.

　　"From the Plymouth hotel, Watson," he said. "I learned the name ofit from the vicar, and I wired to make certain that Dr. LeonSterndale's account was true. It appears that he did indeed spend lastnight there, and that he has actually allowed some of his baggage togo on to Africa, while he returned to be present at thisinvestigation. What do you make of that, Watson?"

　　"He is deeply interested."

　　"Deeply interested- yes. There is a thread where which we have notyet grasped and which might lead us through the tangle. Cheer up,Watson, for I am very sure that our material has not yet all come tohand. When it does we may soon leave our difficulties behind us."Little did I think how soon the words of Holmes would be realized,or how strange and sinister would be that new development which openedup an entirely fresh line of investigation. I was shaving at my windowin the morning when I heard the rattle of hoofs and, looking up, saw adog-cart coming at a gallop down the road. It pulled up at our door,and our friend, the vicar, sprang from it and rushed up our gardenpath. Holmes was already dressed, and we hastened down to meet him.Our visitor was so excited that he could hardly articulate, but atlast in gasps and bursts his tragic story came out of him."We are devil-ridden, Mr. Holmes! My poor parish is devil-ridden!"he cried. "Satan himself is loose in it! We are given over into hishands!" He danced about in his agitation, a ludicrous object if itwere not for his ashy face and startled eyes. Finally he shot outhis terrible news.

　　"Mr. Mortimer Tregennis died during the night, and with exactlythe same symptoms as the rest of his family."

　　Holmes sprang to his feet, all energy in an instant.

　　"Can you fit us both into your dog-cart?"

　　"Yes, I can."

　　"Then, Watson, we will postpone our breakfast. Mr. Roundhay, weare entirely at your disposal. Hurry- hurry, before things getdisarranged."

　　The lodger occupied two rooms at the vicarage, which were in anangle by themselves, the one above the other. Below was a largesitting-room; above, his bedroom. They looked out upon a croquetlawn which came up to the windows. We had arrived before the doctor orthe police, so that everything was absolutely undisturbed. Let medescribe exactly the scene as we saw it upon that misty March morning.It left an impression which can never be effaced from my mind.The atmosphere of the room was of a horrible and depressingstuffiness. The servant who had first entered had thrown up thewindow, or it would have been even more intolerable. This might partlybe due to the fact that a lamp stood flaring and smoking on the centretable. Beside it sat the dead man, leaning back in his chair, his thinbeard projecting, his spectacles pushed up on to his forehead, and hislean dark face turned towards the window and twisted into the samedistortion of terror which had marked the features of his dead sister.His limbs were convulsed and his fingers contorted as though he haddied in a very paroxysm of fear. He was fully clothed, though therewere signs that his dressing had been done in a hurry. We hadalready learned that his bed had been slept in, and that the tragicend had come to him in the early morning.

　　One realized the red-hot energy which underlay Holmes's phlegmaticexterior when one saw the sudden change which came over him from themoment that he entered the fatal apartment. In an instant he was tenseand alert, his eves shining, his face set, his limbs quivering witheager activity. He was out on the lawn, in through the window, roundthe room, and up into the bedroom, for all the world like a dashingfoxhound drawing a cover. In the bedroom he made a rapid cast aroundand ended by throwing open the window, which appeared to give him somefresh cause for excitement, for he leaned out of it with loudejaculations of interest and delight. Then he rushed down thestairs, out through the open window, threw himself upon his face onthe lawn, sprang up and into the room once more, all with the energyof the hunter who is at the very heels of his quarry. The lamp,which was an ordinary standard, he examined with minute care, makingcertain measurements upon its bowl. He carefully scrutinized withhis lens the tale shield which covered the top of the chimney andscraped off some ashes which adhered to its upper surface, puttingsome of them into an envelope, which he placed in his pocketbook.Finally, just as the doctor and the official police put in anappearance, he beckoned to the vicar and we all three went out uponthe lawn.

　　"I am glad to say that my investigation has not been entirelybarren," he remarked. "I cannot remain to discuss the matter withthe police, but I should be exceedingly obliged, Mr. Roundhay, ifyou would give the inspector my compliments and direct his attentionto the bedroom window and to the sitting-room lamp. Each issuggestive, and together they are almost conclusive. If the policewould desire further information I shall be happy to see any of themat the cottage. And now, Watson, I think that, perhaps, we shall bebetter employed elsewhere."

　　It may be that the police resented the intrusion of an amateur, orthat they imagined themselves to be upon some hopeful line ofinvestigation; but it is certain that we heard nothing from them forthe next two days. During this time Holmes spent some of his timesmoking and dreaming in the cottage; but a greater portion incountry walks which he undertook alone, returning after many hourswithout remark as to where he had been. One experiment served toshow me the line of his investigation. He had bought a lamp whichwas the duplicate of the one which had burned in the room ofMortimer Tregennis on the morning of the tragedy. This he filledwith the same oil as that used at the vicarage, and he carefully timedthe period which it would take to be exhausted. Another experimentwhich he made was of a more unpleasant nature, and one which I amnot likely ever to forget.

　　"You will remember, Watson," he remarked one afternoon, "thatthere is a single common point of resemblance in the varying reportswhich have reached us. This concerns the effect of the atmosphere ofthe room in each case upon those who had first entered it. You willrecollect that Mortimer Tregennis, in describing the episode of hislast visit to his brother's house, remarked that the doctor onentering the room fell into a chair? You had forgotten? Well, I cananswer for it that it was so. Now, you will remember also that Mrs.Porter, the housekeeper, told us that she herself fainted uponentering the room and had afterwards opened the window. In thesecond case- that of Mortimer Tregennis himself- you cannot haveforgotten the horrible stuffiness of the room when we arrived,though the servant had thrown open the window. That servant, I foundupon inquiry, was so ill that she had gone to her bed. You will admit,Watson, that these facts are very suggestive. In each case there isevidence of a poisonous atmosphere. In each case, also, there iscombustion going on in the room- in the one case a fire, in theother a lamp. The fire was needed, but the lamp was lit- as acomparison of the oil consumed will show- long after it was broaddaylight. Why? Surely because there is some connection between threethings- the burning, the stuffy atmosphere, and, finally, themadness or death of those unfortunate people. That is clear, is itnot?"

　　"It would appear so."

　　"At least we may accept it as a working hypothesis. We will suppose,then, that something was burned in each case which produced anatmosphere causing strange toxic effects. Very good. In the firstinstance- that of the Tregennis family- this substance was placed inthe fire. Now the window was shut, but the fire would naturallycarry fumes to some extent up the chimney. Hence one would expectthe effects of the poison to be less than in the second case, wherethere was less escape for the vapour. The result seems to indicatethat it was so, since in the first case only the woman, who hadpresumably the more sensitive organism, was killed, the othersexhibiting that temporary or permanent lunacy which is evidently thefirst effect of the drug. In the second case the result wascomplete. The facts, therefore, seem to bear out the theory of apoison which worked by combustion.

　　"With this train of reasoning in my head I naturally looked about inMortimer Tregennis's room to find some remains of this substance.The obvious place to look was the talc shield or smoke-guard of thelamp. There, sure enough, I perceived a number of flaky ashes, andround the edges a fringe of brownish powder, which had not yet beenconsumed. Half of this I took, as you saw, and I placed it in anenvelope."

　　"Why half, Holmes?"

　　"It is not for me, my dear Watson, to stand in the way of theofficial police force. I leave them all the evidence which I found.The poison still remained upon the talc had they the wit to find it.Now, Watson, we will light our lamp; we will, however, take theprecaution to open our window to avoid the premature decease of twodeserving members of society, and you will seat yourself near thatopen window in an armchair unless, like a sensible man, youdetermine to have nothing to do with the affair. Oh, you will see itout, will you? I thought I knew my Watson. This chair I will placeopposite yours, so that we may be the same distance from the poisonand face to face. The door we will leave ajar. Each is now in aposition to watch the other and to bring the experiment to an endshould the symptoms seem alarming. Is that all clear? Well, then, Itake our powder- or what remains of it- from the envelope, and I layit above the burning lamp. So! Now, Watson, let us sit down andawait developments."

　　They were not long in coming. I had hardly settled in my chairbefore I was conscious of a thick, musky odour, subtle and nauseous.At the very first whiff of it my brain and my imagination werebeyond all control. A thick, black cloud swirled before my eyes, andmy mind told me that in this cloud, unseen as yet, but about to springout upon my appalled senses, lurked all that was vaguely horrible, allthat was monstrous and inconceivably wicked in the universe. Vagueshapes swirled and swam amid the dark cloud-bank, each a menace anda warning of something coming, the advent of some unspeakabledweller upon the threshold, whose very shadow would blast my soul. Afreezing horror took possession of me. I felt that my hair was rising,that my eyes were protruding, that my mouth was opened, and mytongue like leather. The turmoil within my brain was such thatsomething must surely snap. I tried to scream and was vaguely aware ofsome hoarse croak which was my own voice, but distant and detachedfrom myself. At the same moment, in some effort of escape, I brokethrough that cloud of despair and had a glimpse of Holmes's face,white, rigid, and drawn with horror- the very look which I had seenupon the features of the dead. It was that vision which gave me aninstant of sanity and of strength. I dashed from my chair, threw myarms round Holmes, and together we lurched through the door, and aninstant afterwards had thrown ourselves down upon the grass plot andwere lying side by side, conscious only of the glorious sunshine whichwas bursting its way through the hellish cloud of terror which hadgirt us in. Slowly it rose from our souls like the mists from alandscape until peace and reason had returned, and we were sittingupon the grass, wiping our clammy foreheads, and looking withapprehension at each other to mark the last traces of that terrificexperience which we had undergone.

　　"Upon my word, Watson!" said Holmes at last with an unsteadyvoice, "I owe you both my thanks and an apology. It was anunjustifiable experiment even for one's self, and doubly so for afriend. I am really very sorry."

　　"You know," I answered with some emotion, for I had never seen somuch of Holmes's heart before, "that it is my greatest joy andprivilege to help you."

　　He relapsed at once into the half-humorous, half-cynical veinwhich was his habitual attitude to those about him. "It would besuperfluous to drive us mad, my dear Watson," said he. "A candidobserver would certainly declare that we were so already before weembarked upon so wild an experiment. I confess that I never imaginedthat the effect could be so sudden and so severe." He dashed intothe cottage, and, reappearing with the burning lamp held at full arm'slength, he threw it among a bank of brambles. "We must give the room alittle time to clear. I take it, Watson, that you have no longer ashadow of a doubt as to how these tragedies were produced?""None whatever."

　　"But the cause remains as obscure as before. Come into the arbourhere and let us discuss it together. That villainous stuff seems stillto linger round my throat. I think we must admit that all the evidencepoints to this man, Mortimer Tregennis, having been the criminal inthe first tragedy, though he was the victim in the second one. We mustremember, in the first place, that there is some story of a familyquarrel, followed by a reconciliation. How bitter that quarrel mayhave been, or how hollow the reconciliation we cannot tell. When Ithink of Mortimer Tregennis, with the foxy face and the smallshrewd, beady eyes behind the spectacles, he is not a man whom Ishould judge to be of a particularly forgiving disposition. Well, inthe next place, you will remember that this idea of someone movingin the garden, which took our attention for a moment from the realcause of the tragedy, emanated from him. He had a motive in misleadingus. Finally, if he did not throw this substance into the fire at themoment of leaving the room, who did do so? The affair happenedimmediately after his departure. Had anyone else come in, the familywould certainly have risen from the table. Besides, in peacefulCornwall, visitors do not arrive after ten o'clock at night. We maytake it then, that all the evidence points to Mortimer Tregennis asthe culprit."

　　"Then his own death was suicide!"

　　"Well, Watson, it is on the face of it a not impossible supposition.The man who had the guilt upon his soul of having brought such afate upon his own family might well be driven by remorse to inflict itupon himself. There are, however, some cogent reasons against it.Fortunately, there is one man in England who knows all about it, and Ihave made arrangements by which we shall hear the facts this afternoonfrom his own lips. Ah! he is a little before his time. Perhaps youwould kindly step this way, Dr. Leon Sterndale. We have beenconducting a chemical experiment indoors which has left our littleroom hardly fit for the reception of so distinguished a visitor."I had heard the click of the garden gate, and now the majesticfigure of the great African explorer appeared upon the path. He turnedin some surprise towards the rustic arbour in which we sat."You sent for me, Mr. Holmes. I had your note about an hour ago, andI have come, though I really do not know why I should obey yoursummons."

　　"Perhaps we can clear the point up before we separate," said Holmes."Meanwhile, I am much obliged to you for your courteousacquiescence. You will excuse this informal reception in the open air,but my friend Watson and I have nearly furnished an additional chapterto what the papers call the Cornish Horror, and we prefer a clearatmosphere for the present. Perhaps, since the matters which we haveto discuss will affect you personally in a very intimate fashion, itis as well that we should talk where there can be no eavesdropping."The explorer to his cigar from his lips and gazed sternly at mycompanion.

　　"I am at a loss to know, sir," he said, "what you can have tospeak about which affects me personally in a very intimate fashion.""The killing of Mortimer Tregennis," said Holmes.

　　For a moment I wished that I were armed. Sterndale's fierce faceturned to a dusky red, his eyes glared, and the knotted, passionateveins started out in his forehead, while he sprang forward withclenched hands towards my companion. Then he stopped, and with aviolent effort he resumed a cold, rigid calmness, which was,perhaps, more suggestive of danger than his hot-headed outburst."I have lived so long among savages and beyond the law," said he,"that I have got into the way of being a law to myself. You would dowell, Mr. Holmes, not to forget it, for I have no desire to do youan injury."

　　"Nor have I any desire to do you an injury Dr. Sterndale. Surely theclearest proof of it is that, knowing what I know, I have sent for youand not for the police."

　　Sterndale sat down with a gasp, overawed for, perhaps, the firsttime in his adventurous life. There was a calm assurance of power inHolmes's manner which could not be withstood. Our visitor stammeredfor a moment, his great hands opening and shutting in his agitation."What do you mean?" he asked at last. "If this is bluff upon yourpart, Mr. Holmes, you have chosen a bad man for your experiment. Letus have no more beating about the bush. What do you mean?""I will tell you," said Holmes, "and the reason why I tell you isthat I hope frankness may beget frankness. What the next step may bewill depend entirely upon the nature of your own defence.""My defence?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"My defence against what?"

　　"Against the charge of killing Mortimer Tregennis."

　　Sterndale mopped his forehead with his handkerchief. "Upon myword, you are getting on," said he. "Do all your successes depend uponthis prodigious power of bluff?"

　　"The bluff," said Holmes sternly, "is upon your side, Dr. LeonSterndale, and not upon mine. As a proof I will tell you some of thefacts upon which my conclusions are based. Of your return fromPlymouth, allowing much of your property to go on to Africa, I willsay nothing save that it first informed me that you were one of thefactors which had to be taken into account in reconstructing thisdrama-"

　　"I came back-"

　　"I have heard your reasons and regard them as unconvincing andinadequate. We will pass that. You came down here to ask me whom Isuspected. I refused to answer you. You then went to the vicarage,waited outside it for some time, and finally returned to yourcottage."

　　"How do you know that?"

　　"I followed you."

　　"I saw no one."

　　"That is what you may expect to see when I follow you. You spent arestless night at your cottage, and you formed certain plans, which inthe early morning you proceeded to put into execution. Leaving yourdoor just as day was breaking, you filled your pocket with somereddish gravel that was lying heaped beside your gate."Sterndale gave a violent start and looked at Holmes in amazement."You then walked swiftly for the mile which separated you from thevicarage. You were wearing, I may remark, the same pair of ribbedtennis shoes which are at the present moment upon your feet. At thevicarage you passed through the orchard and the side hedge, coming outunder the window of the lodger Tregennis. It was now daylight, but thehousehold was not yet stirring. You drew some of the gravel fromyour pocket, and you threw it up at the window above you."Sterndale sprang to his feet.

　　"I believe that you are the devil himself!" he cried.

　　Holmes smiled at the compliment. "It took two, or possibly three,handfuls before the lodger came to the window. You beckoned him tocome down. He dressed hurriedly and descended to his sitting-room. Youentered by the window. There was an interview- a short one- duringwhich you walked up and down the room. Then you passed out andclosed the window, standing on the lawn outside smoking a cigar andwatching what occurred. Finally, after the death of Tregennis, youwithdrew as you had come. Now, Dr. Sterndale, how do you justifysuch conduct, and what are the motives for your actions? If youprevaricate or trifle with me, I give you my assurance that the matterwill pass out of my hands forever."

　　Our visitor's face had turned ashen gray as he listened to the wordsof his accuser. Now he sat for some time in thought with his face sunkin his hands. Then with a sudden impulsive gesture he plucked aphotograph from his breast-pocket and threw it on the rustic tablebefore us.

　　"That is why I have done it," said he.

　　It showed the bust and face of a very beautiful woman. Holmesstooped over it.

　　"Brenda Tregennis," said he.

　　"Yes, Brenda Tregennis," repeated our visitor. "For years I haveloved her. For years she has loved me. There is the secret of thatCornish seclusion which people have marvelled at. It has brought meclose to the one thing on earth that was dear to me. I could not marryher, for I have a wife who has left me for years and yet whom, bythe deplorable laws of England, I could not divorce. For yearsBrenda waited. For years I waited. And this is what we have waitedfor." A terrible sob shook his great frame, and he clutched his throatunder his brindled beard. Then with an effort he mastered himselfand spoke on:

　　"The vicar knew. He was in our confidence. He would tell you thatshe was an angel upon earth. That was why he telegraphed to me and Ireturned. What was my baggage or Africa to me when I learned that sucha fate had come upon my darling? There you have the missing clue to myaction, Mr. Holmes."

　　"Proceed," said my friend.

　　Dr. Sterndale drew from his pocket a paper packet and laid it uponthe table. On the outside was written "Radix pedis diaboli" with a redpoison label beneath it. He pushed it towards me. "I understand thatyou are a doctor, sir. Have you ever heard of this preparation?""Devil's-foot root! No, I have never heard of it."

　　"It is no reflection upon your professional knowledge," said he,"for I believe that, save for one sample in a laboratory at Buda,there is no other specimen in Europe. It has not yet found its wayeither into the pharmacopoeia or into the literature of toxicology.The root is shaped like a foot, half human, half goatlike; hence thefanciful name given by a botanical missionary. It is used as an ordealpoison by the medicine-men in certain districts of West Africa andis kept as a secret among them. This particular specimen I obtainedunder very extraordinary circumstances in the Ubangi country." Heopened the paper as he spoke and disclosed a heap of reddish-brown,snuff-like powder.

　　"Well, sir?" asked Holmes sternly.

　　"I am about to tell you, Mr. Holmes, all that actually occurred, foryou already know so much that it is clearly to my interest that youshould know all. I have already explained the relationship in whichI stood to the Tregennis family. For the sake of the sister I wasfriendly with the brothers. There was a family quarrel about moneywhich estranged this man Mortimer, but it was supposed to be madeup, and I afterwards met him as I did the others. He was a sly,subtle, scheming man, and several things arose which gave me asuspicion of him, but I had no cause for any positive quarrel."One day, only a couple of weeks ago, he came down to my cottage andI showed him some of my African curiosities. Among other things Iexhibited this powder, and I told him of its strange properties, howit stimulates those brain centres which control the emotion of fear,and how either madness or death is the fate of the unhappy nativewho is subjected to the ordeal by the priest of his tribe. I toldhim also how powerless European science would be to detect it. Howhe took it I cannot say, for I never left the room, but there is nodoubt that it was then, while I was opening cabinets and stooping toboxes, that he managed to abstract some of the devil's-foot root. Iwell remember how he plied me with questions as to the amount andthe time that was needed for its effect, but I little dreamed thathe could have a personal reason for asking.

　　"I thought no more of the matter until the vicar's telegramreached me at Plymouth. This villain had thought that I would be atsea before the news could reach me, and that I should be lost foryears in Africa. But I returned at once. Of course, I could not listento the details without feeling assured that my poison had been used. Icame round to see you on the chance that some other explanation hadsuggested itself to you. But there could be none. I was convinced thatMortimer Tregennis was the murderer; that for the sake of money, andwith the idea, perhaps, that if the other members of his family wereall insane he would be the sole guardian of their joint property, hehad used the devil's-foot powder upon them, driven two of them outof their senses, and killed his sister Brenda, the one human beingwhom I have ever loved or who has ever loved me. There was hiscrime; what was to be his punishment?

　　"Should I appeal to the law? Where were my proofs? I knew that thefacts were true, but could I help to make a jury of countrymen believeso fantastic a story? I might or I might not. But I could not affordto fail. My soul cried out for revenge. I have said to you oncebefore, Mr. Holmes, that I have spent much of my life outside the law,and that I have come at last to be a law to myself. So it was now. Idetermined that the fate which he had given to others should be sharedby himself. Either that or I would do justice upon him with my ownhand. In all England there can be no man who sets less value uponhis own life than I do at the present moment.

　　"Now I have told you all. You have yourself supplied the rest. Idid, as you say, after a restless night, set off early from mycottage. I foresaw the difficulty of arousing him, so I gatheredsome gravel from the pile which you have mentioned, and I used it tothrow up to his window. He came down and admitted me through thewindow of the sitting-room. I laid his offence before him. I toldhim that I had come both as judge and executioner. The wretch sankinto a chair, paralyzed at the sight of my revolver. I lit the lamp,put the powder above it, and stood outside the window, ready tocarry out my threat to shoot him should he try to leave the room. Infive minutes he died. My God! how he died! But my heart was flint, forhe endured nothing which my innocent darling had not felt beforehim. There is my story, Mr. Holmes. Perhaps, if you loved a woman, youwould have done as much yourself. At any rate, I am in your hands. Youcan take what steps you like. As I have already said, there is noman living who can fear death less than I do."

　　Holmes sat for some little time in silence.

　　"What were your plans?" he asked at last.

　　"I had intended to bury myself in central Africa. My work there isbut half finished."

　　"Go and do the other half," said Holmes. "I at least, am notprepared to prevent you."

　　Dr. Sterndale raised his giant figure, bowed gravely, and walkedfrom the arbour. Holmes lit his pipe and handed me his pouch."Some fumes which are not poisonous would be a welcome change," saidhe. "I think you must agree, Watson, that it is not a case in which weare called upon to interfere. Our investigation has beenindependent, and our action shall be so also. You would not denouncethe man?"

　　"Certainly not," I answered.

　　"I have never loved, Watson, but if I did and if the woman I lovedhad met such an end, I might have done as our lawless lion-hunterhas done. Who knows? Well, Watson, I will not offend your intelligenceby explaining what is obvious. The gravel upon the window sill was, ofcourse, the starting-point of my research. It was unlike anything inthe vicarage garden. Only when my attention had been drawn to Dr.Sterndale and his cottage did I find its counterpart. The lamp shiningin broad daylight and the remains of powder upon the shield weresuccessive links in a fairly obvious chain. And now, my dear Watson, Ithink we may dismiss the matter from our mind and go back with a clearconscience to the study of those Chaldean roots which are surely to betraced in the Cornish branch of the great Celtic speech."-THE END-

　　.

　　1913

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE DYING DETECTIVE

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　Mrs. Hudson, the landlady of Sherlock Holmes, was a long-sufferingwoman. Not only was her first-floor flat invaded at all hours bythrongs of singular and often undesirable characters but herremarkable lodger showed an eccentricity and irregularity in hislife which must have sorely tried her patience. His incredibleuntidiness, his addiction to music at strange hours, his occasionalrevolver practice within doors, his weird and often malodorousscientific experiments, and the atmosphere of violence and dangerwhich hung around him made him the very worst tenant in London. On theother hand, his payments were princely. I have no doubt that the housemight have been purchased at the price which Holmes paid for his roomsduring the years that I was with him.

　　The landlady stood in the deepest awe of him and never dared tointerfere with him, however outrageous his proceedings might seem. Shewas fond of him, too, for he had a remarkable gentleness andcourtesy in his dealings with women. He disliked and distrusted thesex, but he was always a chivalrous opponent. Knowing how genuinewas her regard for him, I listened earnestly to her story when shecame to my rooms in the second year of my married life and told meof the sad condition to which my poor friend was reduced."He's dying, Dr. Watson," said she. "For three days he has beensinking, and I doubt if he will last the day. He would not let meget a doctor. This morning when I saw his bones sticking out of hisface and his great bright eyes looking at me I could stand no moreof it. 'With your leave or without it, Mr. Holmes, I am going for adoctor this very hour,' said I. 'Let it be Watson, then,' said he. Iwouldn't waste an hour in coming to him, sir, or you may not see himalive."

　　I was horrified for I had heard nothing of his illness. I need notsay that I rushed for my coat and my hat. As we drove back I asked forthe details.

　　"There is little I can tell you, sir. He has been working at acase down at Rotherhithe, in an alley near the river, and he hasbrought this illness back with him. He took to his bed on Wednesdayafternoon and has never moved since. For these three days neither foodnor drink has passed his lips."

　　"Good God! Why did you not call in a doctor?"

　　"He wouldn't have it, sir. You know how masterful he is. I didn'tdare to disobey him. But he's not long for this world, as you'll seefor yourself the moment that you set eyes on him."

　　He was indeed a deplorable spectacle. In the dim light of a foggyNovember day the sick room was a gloomy spot, but it was that gaunt,wasted face staring at me from the bed which sent a chill to my heart.His eyes had the brightness of fever, there was a hectic flush uponeither cheek, and dark crusts clung to his lips; the thin hands uponthe coverlet twitched incessantly, his voice was croaking andspasmodic. He lay listlessly as I entered the room, but the sight ofme brought a gleam of recognition to his eyes.

　　"Well, Watson, we seem to have fallen upon evil days," said he ina feeble voice, but with something of his old carelessness of manner."My dear fellow!" I cried, approaching him.

　　"Stand back! Stand right back!" said he with the sharp imperiousnesswhich I had associated only with moments of crisis. "If you approachme, Watson, I shall order you out of the house."

　　"But why?"

　　"Because it is my desire. Is that not enough?"

　　Yes, Mrs. Hudson was right. He was more masterful than ever. Itwas pitiful, however, to see his exhaustion.

　　"I only wished to help," I explained.

　　"Exactly! You will help best by doing what you are told.""Certainly, Holmes."

　　He relaxed the austerity of his manner.

　　"You are not angry?" he asked, gasping for breath.

　　Poor devil, how could I be angry when I saw him lying in such aplight before me?

　　"It's for your own sake, Watson," he croaked.

　　"For my sake?"

　　"I know what is the matter with me. It is a coolie disease fromSumatra- a thing that the Dutch know more about than we, though theyhave made little of it up to date. One thing only is certain. It isinfallibly deadly, and it is horribly contagious."

　　He spoke now with a feverish energy, the long hands twitching andjerking as he motioned me away.

　　"Contagious by touch, Watson- that's it, by touch. Keep yourdistance and all is well."

　　"Good heavens, Holmes! Do you suppose that such a considerationweighs with me for an instant? It would not affect me in the case of astranger. Do you imagine it would prevent me from doing my duty toso old a friend?"

　　Again I advanced, but he repulsed me with a look of furious anger."If you will stand there I will talk. If you do not you must leavethe room."

　　I have so deep a respect for the extraordinary qualities of Holmesthat I have always deferred to his wishes, even when I leastunderstood them. But now all my professional instincts were aroused.Let him be my master elsewhere, I at least was his in a sick room."Holmes," said I, "you are not yourself. A sick man is but achild, and so I will treat you. Whether you like it or not, I willexamine your symptoms and treat you for them."

　　He looked at me with venomous eyes.

　　"If I am to have a doctor whether I will or not, let me at leasthave someone in whom I have confidence," said he.

　　"Then you have none in me?"

　　"In your friendship, certainly. But facts are facts, Watson, and,after all, you are only a general practitioner with very limitedexperience and mediocre qualifications. It is painful to have to saythese things, but you leave me no choice."

　　I was bitterly hurt.

　　"Such a remark is unworthy of you, Holmes. It shows me veryclearly the state of your own nerves. But if you have no confidence inme I would not intrude my services. Let me bring Sir Jasper Meek orPenrose Fisher, or any of the best men in London. But someone you musthave, and that is final. If you think that I am going to stand hereand see you die without either helping you myself or bringing anyoneelse to help you, then you have mistaken your man."

　　"You mean well, Watson," said the sick man with something betweena sob and a groan. "Shall I demonstrate your own ignorance? What doyou know, pray, of Tapanuli fever? What do you know of the blackFormosa corruption?"

　　"I have never heard of either."

　　"There are many problems of disease, many strange pathologicalpossibilities, in the East, Watson." He paused after each sentenceto collect his failing strength. "I have learned so much during somerecent researches which have a medico-criminal aspect. It was in thecourse of them that I contracted this complaint. You can do nothing.""Possibly not. But I happen to know that Dr. Ainstree, thegreatest living authority upon tropical disease, is now in London. Allremonstrance is useless, Holmes, I am going this instant to fetchhim." I turned resolutely to the door.

　　Never have I had such a shock! In an instant, with a tiger-spring,the dying man had intercepted me. I heard the sharp snap of atwisted key. The next moment he had staggered back to his bed,exhausted and panting after his one tremendous outflame of energy."You won't take the key from me by force, Watson, I've got you, myfriend. Here you are, and here you will stay until I will otherwise.But I'll humour you." (All this in little gasps, with terriblestruggles for breath between) "You've only my own good at heart. Ofcourse I know that very well. You shall have your way, but give metime to get my strength. Not now, Watson, not now. It's fouro'clock. At six you can go."

　　"This is insanity, Holmes."

　　"Only two hours, Watson. I promise you will go at six. Are youcontent to wait?"

　　"I seem to have no choice."

　　"None in the world, Watson. Thank you, I need no help in arrangingthe clothes. You will please keep your distance. Now, Watson, there isone other condition that I would make. You will seek help, not fromthe man you mention, but from the one that I choose."

　　"By all means."

　　"The first three sensible words that you have uttered since youentered this room, Watson. You will find some books over there. I amsomewhat exhausted; I wonder how a battery feels when it pourselectricity into a non-conductor? At six, Watson, we resume ourconversation."

　　But it was destined to be resumed long before that hour, and incircumstances which gave me a shock hardly second to that caused byhis springing to the door. I had stood for some minutes looking at thesilent figure in the bed. His face was almost covered by the clothesand he appeared to be asleep. Then, unable to settle down toreading, I walked slowly round the room, examining the pictures ofcelebrated criminals with which every wall was adorned. Finally, in myaimless perambulation, I came to the mantelpiece. A litter of pipes,tobacco-pouches, syringes, penknives, revolver-cartridges, and otherdebris was scattered over it. In the midst of these was a smallblack and white ivory box with a sliding lid. It was a neat littlething, and I had stretched out my hand to examine it more closelywhen-

　　It was a dreadful cry that he gave- a yell which might have beenheard down the street. My skin went cold and my hair bristled atthat horrible scream. As I turned I caught a glimpse of a convulsedface and frantic eyes. I stood paralyzed, with the little box in myhand.

　　"Put it down! Down, this instant, Watson- this instant, I say!"His head sank back upon the pillow and he gave a deep sigh of reliefas I replaced the box upon the mantelpiece. "I hate to have mythings touched, Watson. You know that I hate it. You fidget mebeyond endurance. You, a doctor- you are enough to drive a patientinto an asylum. Sit down, man, and let me have my rest!"The incident left a most unpleasant impression upon my mind. Theviolent and causeless excitement, followed by this brutality ofspeech, so far removed from his usual suavity, showed me how deepwas the disorganization of his mind. Of all ruins, that of a noblemind is the most deplorable. I sat in silent dejection until thestipulated time had passed. He seemed to have been watching theclock as well as I, for it was hardly six before he began to talk withthe same feverish animation as before.

　　"Now, Watson," said he. "Have you any change in your pocket?""Yes."

　　"Any silver?"

　　"A good deal."

　　"How many half-crowns?"

　　"I have five."

　　"Ah, too few! Too few! How very unfortunate, Watson! However, suchas they are you can put them in your watchpocket. And all the restof your money in your left trouserpocket. Thank you. It will balanceyou so much better like that."

　　This was raving insanity. He shuddered, and again made a soundbetween a cough and a sob.

　　"You will now light the gas, Watson, but you will be very carefulthat not for one instant shall it be more than half on. I imploreyou to be careful, Watson. Thank you, that is excellent. No, youneed not draw the blind. Now you will have the kindness to placesome letters and papers upon this table within my reach, Thank you.Now some of that litter from the mantelpiece. Excellent, Watson! Thereis a sugar-tongs there. Kindly raise that small ivory box with itsassistance. Place it here among the papers. Good! You can now go andfetch Mr. Culverton Smith, of 13 Lower Burke Street."

　　To tell the truth, my desire to fetch a doctor had somewhatweakened, for poor Holmes was so obviously delirious that it seemeddangerous to leave him. However, he was as eager now to consult theperson named as he had been obstinate in refusing.

　　"I never heard the name," said I.

　　"Possibly not, my good Watson. It may surprise you to know thatthe man upon earth who is best versed in this disease is not a medicalman, but a planter. Mr. Culverton Smith is a well-known resident ofSumatra, now visiting London. An outbreak of the disease upon hisplantation, which was distant from medical aid, caused him to study ithimself, with some rather far-reaching consequences. He is a verymethodical person, and I did not desire you to start before six,because I was well aware that you would not find him in his study.If you could persuade him to come here and give us the benefit ofhis unique experience of this disease, the investigation of whichhas been his dearest hobby, I cannot doubt that he could help me."I give Holmes's remarks as a consecutive whole and will notattempt to indicate how they were interrupted by gaspings for breathand those clutchings of his hands which indicated the pain fromwhich he was suffering. His appearance had changed for the worseduring the few hours that I had been with him. Those hectic spots weremore pronounced, the eyes shone more brightly out of darker hollows,and a cold sweat glimmered upon his brow. He still retained,however, the jaunty gallantry of his speech. To the last gasp he wouldalways be the master.

　　"You will tell him exactly how you have left me," said he. "You willconvey the very impression which is in your own mind- a dying man- adying and delirious man. Indeed, I cannot think why the whole bed ofthe ocean is not one solid mass of oysters, so prolific thecreatures seem. Ah, I am wandering! Strange how the brain controls thebrain! What was I saying, Watson?"

　　"My directions for Mr. Culverton Smith."

　　"Ah, yes, I remember. My life depends upon it. Plead with him,Watson. There is no good feeling between us. His nephew, Watson- I hadsuspicions of foul play and I allowed him to see it. The boy diedhorribly. He has a grudge against me. You will soften him, Watson. Beghim, pray him, get him here by any means. He can save me- only he!""I will bring him in a cab, if I have to carry him down to it.""You will do nothing of the sort. You will persuade him to come. Andthen you will return in front of him. Make any excuse so as not tocome with him. Don't forget, Watson. You won't fail me. You neverdid fail me. No doubt there are natural enemies which limit theincrease of the creatures. You and I, Watson, we have done our part.Shall the world, then, be overrun by oysters? No, no; horrible! You'llconvey all that is in your mind."

　　I left him full of the image of this magnificent intellectbabbling like a foolish child. He had handed me the key, and with ahappy thought I took it with me lest he should lock himself in. Mrs.Hudson was waiting, trembling and weeping, in the passage. Behind meas I passed from the flat I heard Holmes's high, thin voice in somedelirious chant. Below, as I stood whistling for a cab, a man cameon me through the fog.

　　"How is Mr. Holmes, sir?" he asked.

　　It was an old acquaintance, Inspector Morton, of Scotland Yard,dressed in unofficial tweeds.

　　"He is very ill," I answered.

　　He looked at me in a most singular fashion. Had it not been toofiendish, I could have imagined that the gleam of the fanlightshowed exultation in his face.

　　"I heard some rumour of it," said he.

　　The cab had driven up, and I left him.

　　Lower Burke Street proved to be a line of fine houses lying in thevague borderland between Notting Hill and Kensington. The particularone at which my cabman pulled up had an air of smug and demurerespectability in its old-fashioned iron railings, its massivefolding-door, and its shining brasswork. All was in keeping with, asolemn butler who appeared framed in the pink radiance of a tintedelectric light behind him.

　　"Yes, Mr. Culverton Smith is in, Dr. Watson! Very good, sir, Iwill take up your card."

　　My humble name and title did not appear to impress Mr. CulvertonSmith. Through the half-open door I heard a high, petulant,penetrating voice.

　　"Who is this person? What does he want? Dear me, Staples, howoften have I said that I am, not to be disturbed in my hours ofstudy?"

　　There came a gentle flow of soothing explanation from the butler."Well, I won't see him, Staples. I can't have my work interruptedlike this. I am not at home. Say so. tell him to come in the morningif he really must see me."

　　Again the gentle murmur.

　　"Well, well, give him that message. He can come in the morning, orhe can stay away. My work must not be hindered."

　　I thought of Holmes tossing upon his bed of sickness and countingthe minutes, perhaps, until I could bring help to him. It was not atime to stand upon ceremony. His life depended upon my promptness.Before the apologetic butler had delivered his message I had pushedpast him and was in the room.

　　With a shrill cry of anger a man rose from a reclining chairbeside the fire. I saw a great yellow face, coarse-grained and greasy,with heavy, double-chin, and two sullen, menacing gray eyes whichglared at me from under tufted and sandy brows. A high bald head had asmall velvet smoking-cap poised coquettishly upon one side of its pinkcurve. The skull was of enormous capacity, and yet as I looked downI saw to my amazement that the figure of the man was small andfrail, twisted in the shoulders and back like one who has sufferedfrom rickets in his childhood.

　　"What's this?" he cried in a high, screaming voice. "What is themeaning of this intrusion? Didn't I send you word that I would see youto-morrow morning?"

　　"I am sorry," said I, "but the matter cannot be delayed. Mr.Sherlock Holmes-"

　　The mention of my friend's name had an extraordinary effect upon thelittle man. The look of anger passed in an instant from his face.His features became tense and alert.

　　"Have you come from Holmes?" he asked.

　　"I have just left him."

　　"What about Holmes? How is he?"

　　"He is desperately ill. That is why I have come."

　　The man motioned me to a chair, and turned to resume his own. Ashe did so I caught a glimpse of his face in the mirror over themantelpiece. I could have sworn that it was set in a malicious andabominable smile. Yet I persuaded myself that it must have been somenervous contraction which I had surprised, for he turned to me aninstant later with genuine concern upon his features.

　　"I am sorry to hear this," said he. "I only know Mr. Holmesthrough some business dealings which we have had, but I have everyrespect for his talents and his character. He is an amateur ofcrime, as I am of disease. For him the villain, for me the microbe.There are my prisons," he continued, pointing to a row of bottlesand jars which stood upon a side table. "Among those gelatinecultivations some of the very worst offenders in the world are nowdoing time."

　　"It was on account of your special knowledge that Mr. Holmes desiredto see you. He has a high opinion of you and thought that you were theone man in London who could help him."

　　The little man started, and the jaunty smoking-cap slid to thefloor.

　　"Why?" he asked. "Why should Mr. Holmes think that I could helphim in his trouble?"

　　"Because of your knowledge of Eastern diseases."

　　"But why should he think that this disease which he has contractedis Eastern?"

　　"Because, in some professional inquiry, he has been working amongChinese sailors down in the docks."

　　Mr. Culverton Smith smiled pleasantly and picked up his smoking-cap."Oh, that's it- is it?" said he. "I trust the matter is not so graveas you suppose. How long has he been ill?"

　　"About three days."

　　"Is he delirious?"

　　"Occasionally."

　　"Tut, tut! This sounds serious. It would be inhuman not to answerhis call. I very much resent any interruption to my work, Dr.Watson, but this case is certainly exceptional. I will come with youat once."

　　I remembered Holmes's injunction.

　　"I have another appointment," said I.

　　"Very good. I will go alone. I have a note of Mr. Holmes'saddress. You can rely upon my being there within half an hour atmost."

　　It was with a sinking heart that I reentered Holmes's bedroom. Forall that I knew the worst might have happened in my absence. To myenormous relief, he had improved greatly in the interval. Hisappearance was as ghastly as ever, but all trace of delirium hadleft him and he spoke in a feeble voice, it is true, but with evenmore than his usual crispness and lucidity.

　　"Well, did you see him, Watson?"

　　"Yes; he is coming."

　　"Admirable, Watson! Admirable! You are the best of messengers.""He wished to return with me."

　　"That would never do, Watson. That would be obviously impossible.Did he ask what ailed me?"

　　"I told him about the Chinese in the East End."

　　"Exactly! Well, Watson, you have done all that a good friendcould. You can now disappear from the scene."

　　"I must wait and hear his opinion, Holmes."

　　"Of course you must. But I have reasons to suppose that this opinionwould be very much more frank and valuable if he imagines that weare alone. There is just room behind the head of my bed, Watson.""My dear Holmes!"

　　"I fear there is no alternative, Watson. The room does not lenditself to concealment, which is as well, as it is the less likely toarouse suspicion. But just there, Watson, I fancy that it could bedone." Suddenly he sat up with a rigid intentness upon his haggardface. "There are the wheels, Watson. Quick, man, if you love me! Anddon't budge, whatever happens- whatever happens, do you hear? Don'tspeak! Don't move! Just listen with all your ears." Then in an instanthis sudden access of strength departed, and his masterful,purposeful talk droned away into the low, vague murmurings of asemi-delirious man.

　　From the hiding-place into which I had been so swiftly hustled Iheard the footfalls upon the stair, with the opening and the closingof the bedroom door. "Then, to my surprise, there came a long silence,broken only by the heavy breathings and gaspings of the sick man. Icould imagine that our visitor was standing by the bedside and lookingdown at the sufferer. At last that strange hush was broken."Holmes!" he cried. "Holmes!" in the insistent tone of one whoawakens a sleeper. "Can't you hear me, Holmes?" There was arustling, as if he had shaken the sick man roughly by the shoulder."Is that you, Mr. Smith?" Holmes whispered. "I hardly dared hopethat you would come."

　　The other laughed.

　　"I should imagine not," he said. "And yet, you see, I am here. Coalsof fire, Holmes- coals of fire!"

　　"It is very good of you- very noble of you. I appreciate yourspecial knowledge."

　　Our visitor sniggered, "You do. You are, fortunately, the only manin London who does. Do you know what is the matter with you?""The same," said Holmes.

　　"Ah! You recognize the symptoms?"

　　"Only too well."

　　"Well, I shouldn't be surprised, Holmes. I shouldn't be surprised ifit were the same. A bad lookout for you if it is. Poor Victor was adead man on the fourth day- a strong, hearty young fellow. It wascertainly, as you said, very surprising that he should have contractedan out-of-the-way Asiatic disease in the heart of London- a disease,too, of which I had made such a very special study. Singularcoincidence, Holmes. Very smart of you to notice it, but ratheruncharitable to suggest that it was cause and effect."

　　"I knew that you did it."

　　"Oh, you did, did you? Well, you couldn't prove it, anyhow. But whatdo you think of yourself spreading reports about me like that, andthen crawling to me for help the moment you are in trouble? Whatsort of a game is that- eh?"

　　I heard the rasping, laboured breathing of the sick man. "Give methe water!" he gasped.

　　"You're precious near your end, my friend, but I don't want you togo till I have had a word with you. That's why I give you water.There, don't slop it about! That's right. Can you understand what Isay?"

　　Holmes groaned.

　　"Do what you can for me. Let bygones be bygones," he whispered."I'll put the words out of my head- I swear I will. Only cure me,and I'll forget it."

　　"Forget what?"

　　"Well, about Victor Savage's death. You as good as admitted just nowthat you had done it. I'll forget it."

　　"You can forget it or remember it, just as you like. I don't see youin the witnessbox. Quite another shaped box, my good Holmes, Iassure you. It matters nothing to me that you should know how mynephew died. It's not him we are talking about. It's you.""Yes, yes."

　　"The fellow who came for me- I've forgotten his name- said thatyou contracted it down in the East End among the sailors.""I could only account for it so."

　　"You are proud of your brains, Holmes, are you not? Think yourselfsmart, don't you? You came across someone who was smarter this time.Now cast your mind back, Holmes. Can you think of no other way youcould have got this thing?"

　　"I can't think. My mind is gone. For heaven's sake help me!""Yes, I will help you. I'll help you to understand just where youare and how you got there. I'd like you to know before you die.""Give me something to ease my pain."

　　"Painful, is it? Yes, the coolies used to do some squealingtowards the end. Takes you as cramp, I fancy."

　　"Yes, yes; it is cramp."

　　"Well, you can hear what I say, anyhow. Listen now! Can you rememberany unusual incident in your life just about the time your symptomsbegan?"

　　"No, no; nothing."

　　"Think again."

　　"I'm too ill to think."

　　"Well, then, I'll help you. Did anything come by post?""By post?"

　　"A box by chance?"

　　"I'm fainting- I'm gone!"

　　"Listen, Holmes!" There was a sound as if he was shaking the dyingman, and it was all that I could do to hold myself quiet in myhiding-place. "You must hear me. You shall hear me. Do you remembera box- an ivory box? It came on Wednesday. You opened it- do youremember?"

　　"Yes, yes, I opened it. There was a sharp spring inside it. Somejoke-"

　　"It was no joke, as you will find to your cost. You fool, youwould have it and you have got it. Who asked you to cross my path?If you had left me alone I would not have hurt you."

　　"I remember," Holmes gasped. "The spring! It drew blood. This box-this on the table."

　　"The very one, by George! And it may as well leave the room in mypocket. There goes your last shred of evidence. But you have the truthnow, Holmes, and you can die with the knowledge that I killed you. Youknew too much of the fate of Victor Savage, so I have sent you toshare it. You are very near your end, Holmes. I will sit here and Iwill watch you die."

　　Holmes's voice had sunk to an almost inaudible whisper."What is that?" said Smith. "Turn up the gas? Ah, the shadowsbegin to fall, do they? Yes, I will turn it up, that I may see you thebetter." He crossed the room and the light suddenly brightened. "Isthere any other little service that I can do you, my friend?""A match and a cigarette."

　　I nearly called out in my joy and my amazement. He was speaking inhis natural voice- a little weak, perhaps, but the very voice Iknew. There was a long pause, and I felt that Culverton Smith wasstanding in silent amazement looking down at his companion."What's the meaning of this?" I heard him say at last in a dry,rasping tone.

　　"The best way of successfully acting a part is to be it," saidHolmes. "I give you my word that for three days I have tastedneither food nor drink until you were good enough to pour me outthat glass of water. But it is the tobacco which I find mostirksome. Ah, here are some cigarettes." I heard the striking of amatch. That is very much better. Halloa! halloa! Do I hear the step ofa friend?"

　　There were footfalls outside, the door opened, and InspectorMorton appeared.

　　"All is in order and this is your man," said Holmes.

　　The officer gave the usual cautions.

　　"I arrest you on the charge of the murder of one Victor Savage,"he concluded.

　　"And you might add of the attempted murder of one SherlockHolmes," remarked my friend with a chuckle. "To save an invalidtrouble, Inspector, Mr. Culverton Smith was good enough to give oursignal by turning up the gas. By the way, the prisoner has a small boxin the right-hand pocket of his coat which it would be as well toremove. Thank you. I would handle it gingerly if I were you. Put itdown here. It may play its part in the trial."

　　There was a sudden rush and a scuffle, followed by the clash of ironand a cry of pain.

　　"You'll only get yourself hurt," said the inspector. "Stand still,will you?" There was the click of the closing handcuffs."A nice trap!" cried the high, snarling voice. "It will bring youinto the dock, Holmes, not me. He asked me to come here to cure him. Iwas sorry for him and I came. Now he will pretend, no doubt, that Ihave said anything which he may invent which will corroborate hisinsane suspicions. You can lie as you like, Holmes. My word isalways as good as yours."

　　"Good heavens!" cried Holmes. "I had totally forgotten him. Mydear Watson, I owe you a thousand apologies. To think that I shouldhave overlooked you! I need not introduce you to Mr. CulvertonSmith, since I understand that you met somewhat earlier in theevening. Have you the cab below? I will follow you when I amdressed, for I may be of some use at the station.

　　"I never needed it more," said Holmes as he refreshed himself with aglass of claret and some biscuits in the intervals of his toilet."However, as you know, my habits are irregular, and such a featmeans less to me than to most men. It was very essential that I shouldimpress Mrs. Hudson with the reality of my condition, since she was toconvey it to you, and you in turn to him. You won't be offended,Watson? You will realize that among your many talents dissimulationfinds no place, and that if you had shared my secret you would neverhave been able to impress Smith with the urgent necessity of hispresence, which was the vital point of the whole scheme. Knowing hisvindictive nature, I was perfectly certain that he would come tolook upon his handiwork."

　　"But your appearance, Holmes- your ghastly face?"

　　"Three days of absolute fast does not improve one's beauty,Watson. For the rest, there is nothing which a sponge may not cure.With vaseline upon one's forehead, belladonna in one's eyes, rougeover the cheek-bones, and crusts of beeswax round one's lips, a verysatisfying effect can be produced. Malingering is a subject upon whichI have sometimes thought of writing a monograph. A little occasionaltalk about half-crowns, oysters, or any other extraneous subjectproduces a pleasing effect of delirium."

　　"But why would you not let me near you, since there was in truthno infection?"

　　"Can you ask, my dear Watson? Do you imagine that I have norespect for your medical talents? Could I fancy that your astutejudgment would pass a dying man who, however weak, had no rise ofpulse or temperature? At four yards, I could deceive you. If Ifailed to do so, who would bring my Smith within my grasp? No, Watson,I would not touch that box. You can just see if you look at itsideways where the sharp spring like a viper's tooth emerges as youopen it. I dare say it was by some such device that poor Savage, whostood between this monster and a reversion, was done to death. Mycorrespondence, however, is, as you know, a varied one, and I amsomewhat upon my guard against any packages which reach me. It wasclear to me, however, that my pretending that he had reallysucceeded in his design I might surprise a confession. That pretence Ihave carried out with the thoroughness of the true artist. Thankyou, Watson, you must help me on with my coat. When we have finishedat the police station I can think that something nutritious atSimpson's would not be out of place."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1903

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE EMPTY HOUSE

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　It was in the spring of the year 1894 that all London wasinterested, and the fashionable world dismayed, by the murder of theHonourable Ronald Adair under most unusual and inexplicablecircumstances. The public has already learned those particulars of thecrime which came out in the police investigation, but a good dealwas suppressed upon that occasion, since the case for theprosecution was so overwhelmingly strong that it was not necessaryto bring forward all the facts. Only now, at the end of nearly tenyears, am I allowed to supply those missing links which make up thewhole of that remarkable chain. The crime was of interest in itself,but that interest was as nothing to me compared to the inconceivablesequel, which afforded me the greatest shock and surprise of any eventin my adventurous life. Even now, after this long interval, I findmyself thrilling as I think of it, and feeling once more that suddenflood of joy, amazement, and incredulity which utterly submerged mymind. Let me say to that public, which has shown some interest inthose glimpses which I have occasionally given them of the thoughtsand actions of a very remarkable man, that they are not to blame me ifI have not shared my knowledge with them, for I should have consideredit my first duty to do so, had I not been barred by a positiveprohibition from his own lips, which was only withdrawn upon the thirdof last month.

　　It can be imagined that my close intimacy with Sherlock Holmes hadinterested me deeply in crime, and that after his disappearance Inever failed to read with care the various problems which camebefore the public. And I even attempted, more than once, for my ownprivate satisfaction, to employ his methods in their solution,though with indifferent success. There was none, however, whichappealed to me like this tragedy of Ronald Adair. As I read theevidence at the inquest, which led up to a verdict of willful murderagainst some person or persons unknown, I realized more clearly than Ihad ever done the loss which the community had sustained by thedeath of Sherlock Holmes. There were points about this strangebusiness which would, I was sure, have specially appealed to him,and the efforts of the police would have been supplemented, or moreprobably anticipated, by the trained observation and the alert mind ofthe first criminal agent in Europe. All day, as I drove upon my round,I turned over the case in my mind and found no explanation whichappeared to me to be adequate. At the risk of telling a twice-toldtale, I will recapitulate the facts as they were known to the publicat the conclusion of the inquest.

　　The Honourable Ronald Adair was the second son of the Earl ofMaynooth, at that time governor of one of the Australian colonies.Adair's mother had returned from Australia to undergo the operationfor cataract, and she, her son Ronald, and her daughter Hilda wereliving together at 427 Park Lane. The youth moved in the best society-had, so far as was known, no enemies and no particular vices. He hadbeen engaged to Miss Edith Woodley, of Carstairs, but the engagementhad been broken off by mutual consent some months before, and therewas no sign that it had left any very profound feeling behind it.For the rest of the man's life moved in a narrow and conventionalcircle, for his habits were quiet and his nature unemotional. Yet itwas upon this easy-going young aristocrat that death came, in moststrange and unexpected form, between the hours of ten andeleven-twenty on the night of March 30, 1894.

　　Ronald Adair was fond of cards- playing continually, but never forsuch stakes as would hurt him. He was a member of the Baldwin, theCavendish, and the Bagatelle card clubs. It was shown that, afterdinner on the day of his death, he had played a rubber of whist at thelatter club. He had also played there in the afternoon. The evidenceof those who had played with him- Mr. Murray, Sir John Hardy, andColonel Moran- showed that the game was whist, and that there was afairly equal fall of the cards. Adair might have lost five pounds, butnot more. His fortune was a considerable one, and such a loss couldnot in any way affect him. He had played nearly every day at oneclub or other, but he was a cautious player, and usually rose awinner. It came out in evidence that, in partnership with ColonelMoran, he had actually won as much as four hundred and twenty poundsin a sitting, some weeks before, from Godfrey Milner and LordBalmoral. So much for his recent history as it came out at theinquest.

　　On the evening of the crime, he returned from the club exactly atten. His mother and sister were out spending the evening with arelation. The servant deposed that she heard him enter the frontroom on the second floor, generally used as his sittingroom. She hadlit a fire there, and as it smoked she had opened the window. No soundwas heard from the room until eleven-twenty, the hour of the return ofLady Maynooth and her daughter. Desiring to say good-night, sheattempted to enter her son's room. The door was locked on theinside, and no answer could be got to their cries and knocking. Helpwas obtained, and the door forced. The unfortunate young man was foundlying near the table. His head had been horribly mutilated by anexpanding revolver bullet, but no weapon of any sort was to be foundin the room. On the table lay two banknotes for ten pounds each andseventeen pounds ten in silver and gold, the money arranged inlittle piles of varying amount. There were some figures also upon asheet of paper, with the names of some club friends opposite tothem, from which it was conjectured that before his death he wasendeavouring to make out his losses or winnings at cards.A minute examination of the circumstances served only to make thecase more complex. In the first place, no reason could be given whythe young man should have fastened the door upon the inside. There wasthe possibility that the murderer had done this, and had afterwardsescaped by the window. The drop was at least twenty feet, however, anda bed of crocuses in full bloom lay beneath. Neither the flowers northe earth showed any sign of having been disturbed, nor were there anymarks upon the narrow strip of grass which separated the house fromthe road. Apparently, therefore, it was the young man himself whohad fastened the door. But how did he come by his death? No onecould have climbed up to the window without leaving traces. Supposea man had fired through the window, he would indeed be a remarkableshot who could with a revolver inflict so deadly a wound. Again,Park lane is a frequented thoroughfare, there is a cab stand withina hundred yards of the house. No one had heard a shot. And yet therewas the dead man and there the revolver bullet, which had mushroomedout, as soft-nosed bullets will, and so inflicted a wound which musthave caused instantaneous death. Such were the circumstances of thePark Lane Mystery, which were further complicated by entire absence ofmotive, since, as I have said, young Adair was not known to have anyenemy, and no attempt had been made to remove the money or valuablesin the room.

　　All day I turned these facts over in my mind, endeavouring to hitupon some theory which could reconcile them all, and to find that lineof least resistance which my poor friend had declared to be thestarting-point of every investigation. I confess that I made littleprogress. In the evening I strolled across the Park, and foundmyself about six o'clock at the Oxford Street end of Park Lane. Agroup of loafers upon the pavements, all staring up at a particularwindow, directed me to the house which I had come to see. A tall, thinman with coloured glasses, whom I strongly suspected of being aplain-clothes detective, was pointing out some theory of his own,while the others crowded round to listen to what he said. I got asnear him as I could, but his observations seemed to me to be absurd,so I withdrew again in some disgust. As I did so I struck against anelderly, deformed man, who had been behind me, and I knocked downseveral books which he was carrying. I remember that as I pickedthem up, I observed the title of one of them, The Origin of TreeWorship, and it struck me that the fellow must be some poorbibliophile, who, either as a trade or as a hobby, was a collectorof obscure volumes. I endeavoured to apologize for the accident, butit was evident that these books which I had so unfortunatelymaltreated were very precious objects in the eyes of their owner. Witha snarl of contempt he turned upon his heel, and I saw his curved backand white side-whiskers disappear among the throng.

　　My observations of No. 427 Park Lane did little to clear up theproblem in which I was interested. The house was separated from thestreet by a low wall and railing, the whole not more than five feethigh. It was perfectly easy, therefore, for anyone to get into thegarden, but the window was entirely inaccessible, since there was nowaterpipe or anything which could help the most active man to climbit. More puzzled than ever, I retraced my steps to Kensington. I hadnot been in my study five minutes when the maid entered to say thata person desired to see me. To my astonishment it was none otherthan my strange old book collector, his sharp, wizened face peeringout from a frame of white hair, and his precious volumes, a dozen ofthem at least, wedged under his right arm.

　　"You're surprised to see me, sir," said he, in a strange, croakingvoice.

　　I acknowledged that I was.

　　"Well, I've a conscience, sir, and when I chanced to see you go intothis house, as I came hobbling after you, I thought to myself, I'lljust step in and see that kind gentleman, and tell him that if I was abit gruff in my manner there was not any harm meant, and that I ammuch obliged to him for picking up my books."

　　"You make too much of a trifle," said I. "May I ask how you knew whoI was?"

　　"Well, sir, if it isn't too great a liberty, I am a neighbour ofyours, for you'll find my little bookshop at the corner of ChurchStreet, and very happy to see you, I am sure. Maybe you collectyourself, sir. Here's British Birds, and Catullus, and The Holy War- abargain, every one of them. With five volumes you could just fill thatgap on that second shelf. It looks untidy, does it not, sir?"I moved my head to look at the cabinet behind me. When I turnedagain, Sherlock Holmes was standing smiling at me across my studytable. I rose to my feet, stared at him for some seconds in utteramazement, and then it appears that I must have fainted for thefirst and the last time in my life. Certainly a gray mist swirledbefore my eyes, and when it cleared I found my collar-ends undoneand the tingling after-taste of brandy upon my lips. Holmes wasbending over my chair, his flask in his hand.

　　"My dear Watson," said the well-remembered voice, "I owe you athousand apologies. I had no idea that you would be so affected."I gripped him by the arms.

　　"Holmes!" I cried. "Is it really you? Can it indeed be that youare alive? Is it possible that you succeeded in climbing out of thatawful abyss?"

　　"Wait a moment," said he. "Are you sure that you are really fit todiscuss things? I have given you a serious shock by my unnecessarilydramatic reappearance."

　　"I am all right, but indeed, Holmes, I can hardly believe my eyes.Good heavens! to think that you- you of all men- should be standing inmy study." Again I gripped him by the sleeve, and felt the thin,sinewy arm beneath it. "Well, you're not a spirit anyhow," said I. "Mydear chap, I'm overjoyed to see you. Sit down, and tell me how youcame alive out of that dreadful chasm."

　　He sat opposite to me, and lit a cigarette in his old, nonchalantmanner. He was dressed in the seedy frockcoat of the book merchant,but the rest of that individual lay in a pile of white hair and oldbooks upon the table. Holmes looked even thinner and keener than ofold, but there was a dead-white tinge in his aquiline face whichtold me that his life recently had not been a healthy one."I am glad to stretch myself, Watson," said he. "It is no jokewhen a tall man has to take a foot off his stature for several hourson end. Now, my dear fellow, in the matter of these explanations, wehave, if I may ask for your cooperation, a hard and dangerousnight's work in front of us. Perhaps it would be better if I gaveyou an account of the whole situation when that work is finished.""I am full of curiosity. I should much prefer to hear now.""You'll come with me to-night?"

　　"When you like and where you like."

　　"This is, indeed, like the old days. We shall have time for amouthful of dinner before we need go. Well, then, about that chasm.I had no serious difficulty in getting out of it, for the verysimple reason that I never was in it."

　　"You never were in it?"

　　"No, Watson, I never was in it. My note to you was absolutelygenuine. I had little doubt that I had come to the end of my careerwhen I perceived the somewhat sinister figure of the late ProfessorMoriarty standing upon the narrow pathway which led to safety. Iread an inexorable purpose in his gray eyes. I exchanged someremarks with him, therefore, and obtained his courteous permissionto write the short note which you afterwards received. I left itwith my cigarette-box and my stick, and I walked along the pathway,Moriarty still at my heels. When I reached the end I stood at bay.He drew no weapon, but he rushed at me and threw his long armsaround me. He knew that his own game was up, and was only anxious torevenge himself upon me. We tottered together upon the brink of thefall. I have some knowledge, however, of baritsu, or the Japanesesystem of wrestling, which has more than once been very useful tome. I slipped through his grip, and he with a horrible scream kickedmadly for a few seconds, and clawed the air with both his hands. Butfor all his efforts he could not get his balance, and over he went.With my face over the brink, I saw him fall for a long way. Then hestruck a rock, bounded off, and splashed into the water."I listened with amazement to this explanation, which Holmesdelivered between the puffs of his cigarette.

　　"But the tracks!" I cried. "I saw, with my own eyes, that two wentdown the path and none returned."

　　"It came about in this way. The instant that the Professor haddisappeared, it struck me what a really extraordinarily lucky chanceFate had placed in my way. I knew that Moriarty was not the only manwho had sworn my death. There were at least three others whosedesire for vengeance upon me would only be increased by the death oftheir leader. They were all most dangerous men. One or other wouldcertainly get me. On the other hand, if all the world was convincedthat I was dead they would take liberties, these men, they wouldsoon lay themselves open, and sooner or later I could destroy them.Then it would be time for me to announce that I was still in theland of the living. So rapidly does the brain act that I believe I hadthought this all out before Professor Moriarty had reached thebottom of the Reichenbach Fall.

　　"I stood up and examined the rocky wall behind me. In yourpicturesque account of the matter, which I read with great interestsome months later, you assert that the wall was sheer. That was notliterally true. A few small footholds presented themselves, andthere was some indication of a ledge. The cliff is so high that toclimb it all was an obvious impossibility, and it was equallyimpossible to make my way along the wet path without leaving sometracks. I might, it is true, have reversed my boots, as I have done onsimilar occasions, but the sight of three sets of tracks in onedirection would certainly have suggested a deception. On the whole,then, it was best that I should risk the climb. It was not apleasant business, Watson. The fall roared beneath me. I am not afanciful person, but I give you my word that I seemed to hearMoriarty's voice screaming at me out of the abyss. A mistake wouldhave been fatal. More than once, as tufts of grass came out in my handor my foot slipped in the wet notches of the rock, I thought that Iwas gone. But I struggled upward, and at last I reached a ledgeseveral feet deep and covered with soft green moss, where I couldlie unseen, in the most perfect comfort. There I was stretched, whenyou, my dear Watson, and all your following were investigating inthe most sympathetic and inefficient manner the circumstances of mydeath.

　　"At last, when you had all formed your inevitable and totallyerroneous conclusions, you departed for the hotel, and I was leftalone. I had imagined that I had reached the end of my adventures, buta very unexpected occurrence showed me that there were surprises stillin store for me. A huge rock, falling from above, boomed past me,struck the path, and bounded over into the chasm. For an instant Ithought that it was an accident, but a moment later, looking up, I sawa man's head against the darkening sky, and another stone struck thevery ledge upon which I was stretched, within a foot of my head. Ofcourse, the meaning of this was obvious. Moriarty had not beenalone. A confederate- and even that one glance had told me howdangerous a man that confederate was- had kept guard while theProfessor had attacked me. From a distance, unseen by me, he hadbeen a witness of his friend's death and of my escape. He hadwaited, and then making his way round to the top of the cliff, hehad endeavoured to succeed where his comrade had failed."I did not take long to think about it, Watson. Again I saw thatgrim face look over the cliff, and I knew that it was the precursor ofanother stone. I scrambled down on to the path. I don't think Icould have done it in cold blood. It was a hundred times moredifficult than getting up. But I had no time to think of the danger,for another stone sang past me as I hung by my hands from the edgeof the ledge. Halfway down I slipped, but, by the blessing of God, Ilanded, torn and bleeding, upon the path. I took to my heels, didten miles over the mountains in the darkness, and a week later I foundmyself in Florence, with the certainty that no one in the world knewwhat had become of me.

　　"I had only one confidant- my brother Mycroft. I owe you manyapologies, my dear Watson, but it was all-important that it shouldbe thought I was dead, and it is quite certain that you would not havewritten so convincing an account of my unhappy end had you notyourself thought that it was true. Several times during the last threeyears I have taken up my pen to write to you, but always I feared lestyour affectionate regard for me should tempt you to someindiscretion which would betray my secret. For that reason I turnedaway from you this evening when you upset my books, for I was indanger at the time, and any show of surprise and emotion upon yourpart might have drawn attention to my identity and led to the mostdeplorable and irreparable results. As to Mycroft, I had to confide inhim in order to obtain the money which I needed. The course ofevents in London did not run so well as I had hoped, for the trialof the Moriarty gang left two of its most dangerous members, my ownmost vindictive enemies, at liberty. I travelled for two years inTibet, therefore, and amused myself by visiting Lhassa, and spendingsome days with the head lama. You may have read of the remarkableexplorations of a Norwegian named Sigerson, but I am sure that itnever occurred to you that you were receiving news of your friend. Ithen passed through Persia, looked in at Mecca, and paid a short butinteresting visit to the Khalifa at Khartoum the results of which Ihave communicated to the Foreign Office. Returning to France, Ispent some months in a research into the coal-tar derivatives, which Iconducted in a laboratory at Montpellier, in the south of France.Having concluded this to my satisfaction and learning that only one ofmy enemies was now left in London I was about to return when mymovements were hastened by the news of this very remarkable ParkLane Mystery, which not only appealed to me by its own merits, butwhich seemed to offer some most peculiar personal opportunities. Icame over at once to London, called in my own person at BakerStreet, threw Mrs. Hudson into violent hysterics, and found thatMycroft had preserved my rooms and my papers exactly as they hadalways been. So it was, my dear Watson, that at two o'clock to-day Ifound myself in my old armchair in my own old room, and only wishingthat I could have seen my old friend Watson in the other chair whichhe has so often adorned."

　　Such was the remarkable narrative to which I listened on thatApril evening- a narrative which would have been utterly incredible tome had it not been confirmed by the actual sight of the tall, sparefigure and the keen, eager face, which I had never thought to seeagain. In some manner he had learned of my own sad bereavement, andhis sympathy was shown in his manner rather than in his words. "Workis the best antidote to sorrow, my dear Watson," said he; "and Ihave a piece of work for us both to-night which, if we can bring it toa successful conclusion, will in itself justify a man's life on thisplanet." In vain I begged him to tell me more. "You will hear andsee enough before morning," he answered. "We have three years of thepast to discuss. Let that suffice until half-past nine, when westart upon the notable adventure of the empty house."

　　It was indeed like old times when, at that hour, I found myselfseated beside him in a hansom, my revolver in my pocket, and thethrill of adventure in my heart. Holmes was cold and stern and silent.As the gleam of the street-lamps flashed upon his austere features,I saw that his brows were drawn down in thought and his thin lipscompressed. I knew not what wild beast we were about to hunt down inthe dark jungle of criminal London, but I was well assured, from thebearing of this master huntsman, that the adventure was a most graveone- while the sardonic smile which occasionally broke through hisascetic gloom boded little good for the object of our quest.I had imagined that we were bound for Baker Street, but Holmesstopped the cab at the corner of Cavendish Square. I observed thatas he stepped out he gave a most searching glance to right and left,and at every subsequent street corner he took the utmost pains toassure that he was not followed. Our route was certainly a singularone. Holmes's knowledge of the byways of London was extraordinary, andon this occasion he passed rapidly and with an assured step througha network of mews and stables, the very existence of which I had neverknown. We emerged at last into a small road, lined with old, gloomyhouses, which led us into Manchester Street, and so to BlandfordStreet. Here he turned swiftly down a narrow passage, passed through awooden gate into a deserted yard, and then opened with a key theback door of a house. We entered together, and he closed it behind us.The place was pitch dark, but it was evident to me that it was anempty house. Our feet creaked and crackled over the bare planking, andmy outstretched hand touched a wall from which the paper was hangingin ribbons. Holmes's cold, thin fingers closed round my wrist andled me forward down a long hall, until I dimly saw the murkyfanlight over the door. Here Holmes turned suddenly to the right andwe found ourselves in a large, square, empty room, heavily shadowed inthe corners, but faintly lit in the centre from the lights of thestreet beyond. There was no lamp near, and the window was thick withdust, so that we could only just discern each other's figureswithin. My companion put his hand upon my shoulder and his lipsclose to my ear.

　　"Do you know where we are?" he whispered.

　　"Surely that is Baker Street" I answered, staring through the dimwindow.

　　"Exactly. We are in Camden House, which stands opposite to our ownold quarters."

　　"But why are we here?"

　　"Because it commands so excellent a view of that picturesque pile.Might I trouble you, my dear Watson, to draw a little nearer to thewindow, taking every precaution not to show yourself, and then to lookup at our old rooms- the starting point of so many of your littlefairy-tales? We will see if my three years of absence have entirelytaken away my power to surprise you."

　　I crept forward and looked across at the familiar window. As my eyesfell upon it, I gave a gasp and a cry of amazement. The blind wasdown, and a strong light was burning in the room. The shadow of aman who was seated in a chair within was thrown in hard, black outlineupon the luminous screen of the window. There was no mistaking thepoise of the head, the squareness of the shoulders, the sharpness ofthe features. The face was turned half-round, and the effect wasthat of one of those black silhouettes which our grandparents loved toframe. It was a perfect reproduction of Holmes. So amazed was I that Ithrew out my hand to make sure that the man himself was standingbeside me. He was quivering with silent laughter.

　　"Well?" said he.

　　"Good heavens!" I cried. "It is marvellous."

　　"I trust that age doth not wither nor custom stale my infinitevariety," said he, and I recognized in his voice the joy and pridewhich the artist takes in his own creation. "It really is ratherlike me, is it not?"

　　"I should be prepared to swear that it was you."

　　"The credit of the execution is due to Monsieur Oscar Meunier, ofGrenoble, who spent some days in doing the moulding. It is a bust inwax. The rest I arranged myself during my visit to Baker Street thisafternoon."

　　"But why?"

　　"Because, my dear Watson, I had the strongest possible reason forwishing certain people to think that I was there when I was reallyelsewhere."

　　"And you thought the rooms were watched?"

　　"I knew that they were watched."

　　"By whom?"

　　"By my old enemies, Watson. By the charming society whose leaderlies in the Reichenbach Fall. You must remember that they knew, andonly they knew, that I was still alive. Sooner or later theybelieved that I should come back to my rooms. They watched themcontinuously, and this morning they saw me arrive."

　　"How do you know?"

　　"Because I recognized their sentinel when I glanced out of mywindow. He is a harmless enough fellow, Parker by name, a garroterby trade, and a remarkable performer upon the jew's-harp. I carednothing for him. But I cared a great deal for the much more formidableperson who was behind him, the bosom friend of Moriarty, the man whodropped the rocks over the cliff, the most cunning and dangerouscriminal in London. That is the man who is after me to-night Watson,and that is the man who is quite unaware that we are after him."My friend's plans were gradually revealing themselves. From thisconvenient retreat, the watchers were being watched and the trackerstracked. That angular shadow up yonder was the bait, and we were thehunters. In silence we stood together in the darkness and watchedthe hurrying figures who passed and repassed in front of us. Holmeswas silent and motionless; but I could tell that he was keenlyalert, and that his eyes were fixed intently upon the stream ofpassers-by. It was a bleak and boisterous night and the windwhistled shrilly down the long street. Many people were moving toand fro, most of them muffled in their coats and cravats. Once ortwice it seemed to me that I had seen the same figure before, and Iespecially noticed two men who appeared to be sheltering themselvesfrom the wind in the doorway of a house some distance up the street. Itried to draw my companion's attention to them; but he gave a littleejaculation of impatience, and continued to stare into the street.More than once he fidgeted with his feet and tapped rapidly with hisfingers upon the wall. It was evident to me that he was becominguneasy, and that his plans were not working out altogether as he hadhoped. At last, as midnight approached and the street graduallycleared, he paced up and down the room in uncontrollable agitation.I was about to make some remark to him, when I raised my eyes to thelighted window, and again experienced almost as great a surprise asbefore. I clutched Holmes's arm, and pointed upward.

　　"The shadow has moved!" I cried.

　　It was indeed no longer the profile, but the back, which wasturned towards us.

　　Three years had certainly not smoothed the asperities of histemper or his impatience with a less active intelligence than his own."Of course it has moved," said he. "Am I such a farcical bungler,Watson, that I should erect an obvious dummy, and expect that someof the sharpest men in Europe would be deceived by it? We have been inthis room two hours, and Mrs. Hudson has made some change in thatfigure eight times, or once in every quarter of an hour. She worksit from the front, so that her shadow may never be seen. Ah!" Hedrew in his breath with a shrill, excited intake. In the dim light Isaw his head thrown forward, his whole attitude rigid withattention. Outside the street was absolutely deserted. Those two menmight still be crouching in the doorway, but I could no longer seethem. All was still and dark, save only that brilliant yellow screenin front of us with the black figure outlined upon its centre. Againin the utter silence I heard that thin, sibilant note which spoke ofintense suppressed excitement. An instant later he pulled me back intothe blackest corner of the room, and I felt his warning hand upon mylips. The fingers which clutched me were quivering. Never had Iknown my friend more moved, and yet the dark street still stretchedlonely and motionless before us.

　　But suddenly I was aware of that which his keener senses had alreadydistinguished. A low, stealthy sound came to my ears, not from thedirection of Baker Street, but from the back of the very house inwhich we lay concealed. A door opened and shut. An instant later stepscrept down the passage- steps which were meant to be silent, but whichreverberated harshly through the empty house. Holmes crouched backagainst the wall, and I did the same, my hand closing upon thehandle of my revolver. Peering through the gloom, I saw the vagueoutline of a man, a shade blacker than the blackness of the open door.He stood for an instant, and then he crept forward, crouching,menacing, into the room. He was within three yards of us, thissinister figure, and I had braced myself to meet his spring, beforeI realized that he had no idea of our presence. He passed close besideus, stole over to the window, and very softly and noiselessly raisedit for half a foot. As he sank to the level of this opening, the lightof the street, no longer dimmed by the dusty glass, fell full upon hisface. The man seemed to be beside himself with excitement. His twoeyes shone like stars, and his features were working convulsively.He was an elderly man, with a thin, projecting nose, a high, baldforehead, and a huge grizzled moustache. An opera hat was pushed tothe back of his head, and an evening dress shirt-front gleamed outthrough his open overcoat. His face was gaunt and swarthy, scored withdeep, savage lines. In his hand he carried what appeared to be astick, but as he laid it down upon the floor it gave a metallic clang.Then from the pocket of his overcoat he drew a bulky object, and hebusied himself in some task which ended with a loud, sharp click, asif a spring or bolt had fallen into its place. Still kneeling upon thefloor he bent forward and threw all his weight and strength uponsome lever, with the result that there came a long, whirling, grindingnoise, ending once more in a powerful click. He straightened himselfthen, and I saw that what he held in his hand was a sort of gun,with a curiously misshapen butt. He opened it at the breech, putsomething in, and snapped the breech-lock. Then, crouching down, herested the end of the barrel upon the ledge of the open window, andI saw his long moustache droop over the stock and his eye gleam asit peered along the sights. I heard a little sigh of satisfaction ashe cuddled the butt into his shoulder; and saw that amazing target,the black man on the yellow ground, standing clear at the end of hisforesight. For an instant he was rigid and motionless. Then his fingertightened on the trigger. There was a strange, loud whiz and a long,silvery tinkle of broken glass. At that instant Holmes sprang like atiger on to the marksman's back, and hurled him flat upon his face. Hewas up again in a moment, and with convulsive strength he seizedHolmes by the throat, but I struck him on the head with the butt of myrevolver, and he dropped again upon the floor. I fell upon him, and asI held him my comrade blew a shrill call upon a whistle. There was theclatter of running feet upon the pavement, and two policemen inuniform, with one plain-clothes detective, rushed through the frontentrance and into the room.

　　"That you, Lestrade?" said Holmes.

　　"Yes, Mr. Holmes. I took the job myself. It's good to see you backin London, sir."

　　"I think you want a little unofficial help. Three undetected murdersin one year won't do, Lestrade. But you handled the Molesey Mysterywith less than your usual- that's to say, you handled it fairly well."We had all risen to our feet, our prisoner breathing hard, with astalwart constable on each side of him. Already a few loiterers hadbegun to collect in the street. Holmes stepped up to the window,closed it, and dropped the blinds. Lestrade had produced twocandles, and the policemen had uncovered their lanterns. I was able atlast to have a good look at our prisoner.

　　It was a tremendously virile and yet sinister face which wasturned towards us. With the brow of a philosopher above and the jaw ofa sensualist below, the man must have started with great capacitiesfor good or for evil. But one could not look upon his cruel blue eyes,with their drooping, cynical lids, or upon the fierce, aggressive noseand the threatening, deep-lined brow, without reading Nature'splainest danger-signals. He took no heed of any of us, but his eyeswere fixed upon Holmes's face with an expression in which hatred andamazement were equally blended. "You fiend!" he kept on muttering."You clever, clever fiend!"

　　"Ah, Colonel!" said Holmes, arranging his rumpled collar. "`Journeysend in lovers' meetings,' as the old play says. I don't think I havehad the pleasure of seeing you since you favoured me with thoseattentions as I lay on the ledge above the Reichenbach Fall."The colonel still stared at my friend like a man in a trance. "Youcunning, cunning fiend!" was all that he could say.

　　"I have not introduced you yet," said Holmes. "This, gentlemen, isColonel Sebastian Moran, once of Her Majesty's Indian Army, and thebest heavy-game shot that our Eastern Empire has ever produced. Ibelieve I am correct Colonel, in saying that your bag of tigersstill remains unrivalled?"

　　The fierce old man said nothing, but still glared at my companion.With his savage eyes and bristling moustache he was wonderfully like atiger himself.

　　"I wonder that my very simple stratagem could deceive so old ashikari," said Holmes. "It must be very familiar to you. Have younot tethered a young kid under a tree, lain above it with yourrifle, and waited for the bait to bring up your tiger? This emptyhouse is my tree, and you are my tiger. You have possibly had otherguns in reserve in case there should be several tigers, or in theunlikely supposition of your own arm failing you. These," he pointedaround, "are my other guns. The parallel is exact."

　　Colonel Moran sprang forward with a snarl of rage, but theconstables dragged him back. The fury upon his face was terrible tolook at.

　　"I confess that you had one small surprise for me," said Holmes."I did not anticipate that you would yourself make use of this emptyhouse and this convenient front window. I had imagined you asoperating from the street, where my friend, Lestrade and his merry menwere awaiting you. With that exception, all has gone as I expected."Colonel Moran turned to the official detective.

　　"You may or may not have just cause for arresting me," said he, "butat least there can be no reason why I should submit to the gibes ofthis person. If I am in the hands of the law, let things be done ina legal way."

　　"Well, that's reasonable enough," said Lestrade. "Nothing furtheryou have to say, Mr. Holmes, before we go?"

　　Holmes had picked up the powerful air-gun from the floor, and wasexamining its mechanism.

　　"An admirable and unique weapon," said he, "noiseless and oftremendous power: I knew Von Herder, the blind German mechanic, whoconstructed it to the order of the late Professor Moriarty. Foryears I have been aware of its existance though I have never beforehad the opportunity of handling it. I commend it very specially toyour attention, Lestrade and also the bullets which fit it.""You can trust us to look after that, Mr. Holmes," said Lestrade, asthe whole party moved towards the door. "Anything further to say?""Only to ask what charge you intend to prefer?"

　　"What charge, sir? Why, of course, the attempted murder of Mr.Sherlock Holmes."

　　"Not so, Lestrade. I do not propose to appear in the matter atall. To you, and to you only, belongs the credit of the remarkablearrest which you have effected. Yes, Lestrade, I congratulate you!With your usual happy mixture of cunning and audacity, you have gothim."

　　"Got him! Got whom, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"The man that the whole force has been seeking in vain- ColonelSebastian Moran, who shot the Honourable Ronald Adair with anexpanding bullet from an air-gun through the open window of thesecond-floor front of No. 427 Park Lane, upon the thirtieth of lastmonth. That's the charge, Lestrade. And now, Watson, if you can endurethe draught from a broken window, I think that half an hour in mystudy over a cigar may afford you some profitable amusement."Our old chambers had been left unchanged through the supervisionof Mycroft Holmes and the immediate care of Mrs. Hudson. As Ientered I saw, it is true, an unwonted tidiness, but the old landmarkswere all in their place. There were the chemical corner and theacid-stained, deal-topped table. There upon a shelf was the row offormidable scrap-books and books of reference which many of ourfellow-citizens would have been so glad to burn. The diagrams, theviolin-case, and the pipe-rack- even the Persian slipper whichcontained the tobacco- all met my eyes as I glanced round me. Therewere two occupants of the room- one, Mrs. Hudson, who beamed upon usboth as we entered- the other, the strange dummy which had played soimportant a part in the evening's adventures. It was a waxcolouredmodel of my friend, so admirably done that it was a perfect facsimile.It stood on a small pedestal table with an old dressing-gown ofHolmes's so draped round it that the illusion from the street wasabsolutely perfect.

　　"I hope you observed all precautions, Mrs. Hudson?" said Holmes."I went to it on my knees, sir, just as you told me."

　　"Excellent. You carried the thing out very well. Did you observewhere the bullet went?"

　　"Yes, sir. I'm afraid it has spoilt your beautiful bust, for itpassed right through the head and flattened itself on the wall. Ipicked it up from the carpet. Here it is!"

　　Holmes held it out to me. "A soft revolver bullet, as youperceive, Watson. There's genius in that, for who would expect to findsuch a thing fired from an airgun? All right, Mrs. Hudson. I am muchobliged for your assistance. And now, Watson, let me see you in yourold seat once more, for there are several points which I should liketo discuss with you."

　　He had thrown off the seedy frockcoat, and now he was the Holmesof old in the mouse-coloured dressing-gown which he took from hiseffigy.

　　"The old shikari's nerves have not lost their steadiness, nor hiseyes their keenness," said he, with a laugh, as he inspected theshattered forehead of his bust.

　　"Plumb in the middle of the back of the head and smack through thebrain. He was the best shot in India, and I expect that there arefew better in London. Have you heard the name?"

　　"No, I have not."

　　"Well, well, such is fame! But, then, if I remember right, you hadnot heard the name of Professor James Moriarty, who had one of thegreat brains of the century. Just give me down my index of biographiesfrom the shelf."

　　He turned over the pages lazily, leaning back in his chair andblowing great clouds from his cigar.

　　"My collection of M's is a fine one," said he. "Moriarty himselfis enough to make any letter illustrious, and here is Morgan thepoisoner, and Merridew of abominable memory, and Mathews, whoknocked out my left canine in the waiting room at Charing Cross,and, finally, here is our friend of to-night."

　　He handed over the book, and I read:

　　Moran, Sebastian, Colonel. Unemployed. Formerly 1st BangalorePioneers. Born London, 1840. Son of Sir Augustus Moran, C.B., onceBritish Minister to Persia. Educated Eton and Oxford. Served in JowakiCampaign, Afghan Campaign, Charasiab (despatches), Sherpur, and Cabul.Author of Heavy Game of the Western Himalayas (1881); Three Monthsin the Jungle (1884). Address: Conduit Street. Clubs: TheAnglo-Indian, the Tankerville, the Bagatelle Card Club.On the margin was written, in Holmes's precise hand:

　　The second most dangerous man in London.

　　"This is astonishing," said I, as I handed back the volume. "Theman's career is that of an honourable soldier."

　　"It is true," Holmes answered. "Up to a certain point he did well.He was always a man of iron nerve, and the story is still told inIndia how he crawled down a drain after a wounded man-eating tiger.There are some trees, Watson, which grow to a certain height, and thensuddenly develop some unsightly eccentricity. You will see it often inhumans. I have a theory that the individual represents in hisdevelopment the whole procession of his ancestors, and that such asudden turn to good or evil stands for some strong influence whichcame into the line of his pedigree. The person becomes, as it were,the epitome of the history of his own family."

　　"It is surely rather fanciful."

　　"Well, I don't insist upon it. Whatever the cause, Colonel Moranbegan to go wrong. Without any open scandal, he still made India toohot to hold him. He retired, came to London, and again acquired anevil name. It was at this time that he was sought out by ProfessorMoriarty, to whom for a time he was chief of the staff. Moriartysupplied him liberally with money, and used him only in one or twovery high-class jobs, which no ordinary criminal could haveundertaken. You may have some recollection of the death of Mrs.Stewart, of Lauder, in 1887. Not? Well, I am sure Moran was at thebottom of it, but nothing could be proved. So cleverly was the colonelconcealed that, even when the Moriarty gang was broken up, we couldnot incriminate him. You remember at that date, when I called upon youin your rooms, how I put up the shutters for fear of air-guns? Nodoubt you thought me fanciful. I knew exactly what I was doing, forI knew of the existence of this remarkable gun, and I knew also thatone of the best shots in the world would be behind it. When we were inSwitzerland he followed us with Moriarty, and it was undoubtedly hewho gave me that evil five minutes on the Reichenbach ledge."You may think that I read the papers with some attention duringmy sojourn in France, on the look-out for any chance of laying himby the heels. So long as he was free in London, my life would reallynot have been worth living. Night and day the shadow would have beenover me, and sooner or later his chance must have come. What could Ido? I could not shoot him at sight, or I should myself be in the dock.There was no use appealing to a magistrate. They cannot interfere onthe strength of what would appear to them to be a wild suspicion. So Icould do nothing. But I watched the criminal news, knowing that sooneror later I should get him. Then came the death of this Ronald Adair.My chance had come at last. Knowing what I did, was it not certainthat Colonel Moran had done it? He had played cards with the lad, hehad followed him home from the club, he had shot him through theopen window. There was not a doubt of it. The bullets alone are enoughto put his head in a noose. I came over at once. I was seen by thesentinel, who would, I knew, direct the colonel's attention to mypresence. He could not fail to connect my sudden return with hiscrime, and to be terribly alarmed. I was sure that he would make anattempt to get me out of the way at once, and would bring round hismurderous weapon for that purpose. I left him an excellent mark in thewindow, and, having warned the police that they might be needed- bythe way, Watson, you spotted their presence in that doorway withunerring accuracy- I took up what seemed to me to be a judiciouspost for observation, never dreaming that he would choose the samespot for his attack. Now, my dear Watson, does anything remain forme to explain?"

　　"Yes," said I. "You have not made it clear what was ColonelMoran's motive in murdering the Honourable Ronald Adair?""Ah! my dear Watson, there we come into those realms ofconjecture, where the most logical mind may be at fault. Each may formhis own hypothesis upon the present evidence, and yours is as likelyto be correct as mine."

　　"You have formed one, then?"

　　"I think that it is not difficult to explain the facts. It cameout in evidence that Colonel Moran and young Adair had, betweenthem, won a considerable amount of money. Now, undoubtedly playedfoul- of that I have long been aware. I believe that on the day of themurder Adair had discovered that Moran was cheating. Very likely hehad spoken to him privately, and had threatened to expose him unlesshe voluntarily resigned his membership of the club, and promised notto play cards again. It is unlikely that a youngster like Adairwould at once make a hideous scandal by exposing a well known man somuch older than himself. Probably he acted as I suggest. The exclusionfrom his clubs would mean ruin to Moran, who lived by his ill-gottencard-gains. He therefore murdered Adair, who at the time wasendeavouring to work out how much money he should himself return,since he could not profit by his partner's foul play. He locked thedoor lest the ladies should surprise him and insist upon knowingwhat he was doing with these names and coins. Will it pass?""I have no doubt that you have hit upon the truth."

　　"It will be verified or disproved at the trial. Meanwhile, come whatmay, Colonel Moran will trouble us no more. The famous air-gun ofVon Herder will embellish the Scotland Yard Museum, and once again Mr.Sherlock Holmes is free to devote his life to examining thoseinteresting little problems which the complex life of London soplentifully presents."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1892

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE ENGINEER'S THUMB

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　Of all the problems which have been submitted to my friend, Mr.Sherlock Holmes, for solution during the years of our intimacy,there were only two which I was the means of introducing to hisnotice-that of Mr. Hatherley's thumb, and that of ColonelWarburton's madness. Of these the latter may have afforded a finerfield for an acute and original observer, but the other was so strangein its inception and so dramatic in its details that it may be themore worthy of being placed upon record, even if it gave my friendfewer openings for those deductive methods of reasoning by which heachieved such remarkable results. The story has, I believe, beentold more than once in the newspapers, but, like all suchnarratives, its effect is much less striking when set forth en bloc ina single half-column of print than when the facts slowly evolve beforeyour own eyes, and the mystery clears gradually away as each newdiscovery furnishes a step which leads on to the complete truth. Atthe time the circumstances made a deep impression upon me, and thelapse of two years has hardly served to weaken the effect.It was in the summer of '89, not long after my marriage, that theevents occurred which I am now about to summarize. I had returned tocivil practice and had finally abandoned Holmes in his Baker Streetrooms, although I continually visited him and occasionally evenpersuaded him to forego his Bohemian habits so far as to come andvisit us. My practice had steadily increased, and as I happened tolive at no very great distance from Paddington Station, I got a fewpatients from among the officials. One of these, whom I had cured of apainful and lingering disease, was never weary of advertising myvirtues and of endeavouring to send me on every sufferer over whomhe might have any influence.

　　One morning, at a little before seven o'clock, I was awakened by themaid tapping at the door to announce that two men had come fromPaddington and were waiting in the consulting-room. I dressedhurriedly, for I knew by experience that railway cases were seldomtrivial, and hastened downstairs. As I descended, my old ally, theguard, came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him."I've got him here," he whispered, jerking his thumb over hisshoulder; "he's all right."

　　"What is it, then?' I asked, for his manner suggested that it wassome strange creature which he had caged up in my room."It's a new patient," he whispered. "I thought I'd bring him roundmyself; then he couldn't slip away. There he is, all safe and sound. Imust go now, Doctor; I have my duties, just the same as you." Andoff he went, this trusty tout, without even giving me time to thankhim.

　　I entered my consulting-room and found a gentleman seated by thetable. He was quietly dressed in a suit of heather tweed, with asoft cloth cap which he had laid down upon my books. Round one ofhis hands he had a handkerchief wrapped, which was mottled all overwith bloodstains. He was young, not more than five-and-twenty, Ishould say, with a strong, masculine face; but be was exceedingly paleand gave me the impression of a man who was suffering from some strongagitation, which it took all his strength of mind to control."I am sorry to knock you up so early, Doctor," said he, "but Ihave had a very serious accident during the night. I came in bytrain this morning, and on inquiring at Paddington as to where I mightfind a doctor, a worthy fellow very kindly escorted me here. I gavethe maid a card, but I see that she has left it upon the side-table."I took it up and glanced at it. "Mr. Victor Hatherley, hydraulicengineer, 16A, Victoria Street (3d. floor)." That was the name, style,and abode of my morning visitor. "I regret that I have kept youwaiting," said I, sitting down in my library chair. "You are freshfrom a night journey, I understand, which is in itself a monotonousoccupation."

　　"Oh, my night could not be called monotonous," said he, and laughed.He laughed very heartily, with a high, ringing note, leaning back inhis chair and shaking his sides. All my medical instincts rose upagainst that laugh.

　　"Stop it!" I cried; "pull yourself together!" and I poured outsome water from a carafe.

　　It was useless, however. He was off in one of those hystericaloutbursts which come upon a strong nature when some great crisis isover and gone. Presently he came to himself once more, very wearyand pale-looking.

　　"I have been making a fool of myself," he gasped.

　　"Not at all. Drink this." I dashed some brandy into the water, andthe colour began to come back to his bloodless cheeks.

　　"That's better!" said he. "And now, Doctor, perhaps you would kindlyattend to my thumb, or rather to the place where my thumb used to be."He unwound the handkerchief and held out his hand. It gave even myhardened nerves a shudder to look at it. There were four protrudingfingers and a horrid red, spongy surface where the thumb should havebeen. It had been hacked or torn right out from the roots."Good heavens!" I cried, "this is a terrible injury. It must havebled considerably."

　　"Yes, it did. I fainted when it was done, and I think that I musthave been senseless for a long time. Then I came to I found that itwas still bleeding, so I tied one end of my handkerchief verytightly round the wrist and braced it up with a twig."

　　"Excellent! You should have been a surgeon."

　　"It is a question of hydraulics, you see, and came within my ownprovince."

　　"This has been done," said I, examining the wound, "by a veryheavy and sharp instrument."

　　"A thing like a cleaver," said he.

　　"An accident, I presume?"

　　"By no means."

　　"What! a murderous attack?"

　　"Very murderous indeed."

　　"You horrify me.'

　　I sponged the wound, cleaned it, dressed it, and finally coveredit over with cotton wadding and carbolized bandages. He lay backwithout wincing, though he bit his lip from time to time."How is that?" I asked when I had finished.

　　"Capital! Between your brandy and your bandage, I feel a new man.I was very weak, but I have had a good deal to go through.""Perhaps you had better not speak of the matter. It is evidentlytrying to your nerves."

　　"Oh, no, not now. I shall have to tell my tale to the police; but,between ourselves, if it were not for the convincing evidence ofthis wound of mine, I should be surprised if they believed mystatement; for it is a very extraordinary one, and I have not muchin the way of proof with which to back it up; and, even if they,believe me, the clues which I can give them are so vague that it isa question whether justice will be done."

　　"Ha!" cried I, "if it is anything in the nature of a problem whichyou desire to see solved, I should strongly recommend you to come tomy friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, before you go to the official police.""Oh, I have heard of that fellow," answered my visitor, "and Ishould be very glad if he would take the matter up, though of course Imust use the official police as well. Would you give me anintroduction to him?"

　　"I'll do better. I'll take you round to him myself."

　　"I should be immensely obliged to you."

　　"Well call a cab and go together. We shall just be in time to have alittle breakfast with him. Do you feel equal to it?"

　　"Yes; I shall not feel easy until I have told my story.""Then my servant will call a cab, and I shall be with you in aninstant." I rushed upstairs, explained the matter shortly to mywife, and in five minutes was inside a hansom, driving with my newacquaintance to Baker Street.

　　Sherlock Holmes was, as I expected, lounging about his

　　sitting-room in his dressing-gown, reading the agony column of TheTimes and smoking his before-breakfast pipe, which was composed of allthe plugs and dottles left from his smokes of the day before, allcarefully dried and collected on the corner of the mantelpiece. Hereceived us in his quietly genial fashion, ordered fresh rashers andeggs, and joined us in a hearty meal. When it was concluded he settledour new acquaintance upon the sofa, placed a pillow beneath hishead, and laid a glass of brandy and water within his reach."It is easy to see that your experience has been no common one,Mr. Hatherley," said he. "Pray, lie down there and make yourselfabsolutely at home. Tell us what you can, but stop when you aretired and keep up your strength with a little stimulant.""Thank you," said my patient, "but I have felt another man since thedoctor bandaged me, and I think that your breakfast has completedthe cure. I shall take up as little of your valuable time as possible,so I shall start at once upon my peculiar experiences."Holmes sat in his big armchair with the weary, heavy-liddedexpression which veiled his keen and eager nature, while I satopposite to him, and we listened in silence to the strange story whichour visitor detailed to us.

　　"You must know," said he, "that I am an orphan and a bachelor,residing alone in lodgings in London. By profession I am a hydraulicengineer, and I have had considerable experience of my work during theseven years that I was apprenticed to Venner & Matheson, thewell-known firm, of Greenwich. Two years ago, having served my time,and having also come into a fair sum of money through my poor father'sdeath, I determined to start in business for myself and tookprofessional chambers in Victoria Street.

　　"I suppose that everyone finds his first independent start inbusiness a dreary experience. To me it has been exceptionally so.During two years I have had three consultations and one small job, andthat is absolutely all that my profession has brought me. My grosstakings amount to L27 10s. Every day, from nine in the morning untilfour in the afternoon, I waited in my little den, until at last: myheart began to sink, and I came to believe that I should never haveany practice at all.

　　"Yesterday, however, just as I was thinking of leaving the office,my clerk entered to say there was a gentleman waiting who wished tosee me upon business. He brought up a card, too, with the name of'Colonel Lysander Stark' engraved upon it. Close at his heels came thecolonel himself, a man rather over the middle size, but of anexceeding thinness. I do not think that I have ever seen so thin aman. His whole face sharpened away into nose and chin, and the skin ofhis cheeks was drawn quite tense over his outstanding bones. Yetthis emaciation seemed to be his natural habit, and due to no disease,for his eye was bright his step brisk, and his bearing assured. He wasplainly but neatly dressed, and his age, I should judge, would benearer forty than thirty.

　　"'Mr. Hatherley?' said he, with something of a German accent. 'Youhave been recommended to me, Mr. Hatherley, as being a man who isnot only proficient in his profession but is also discreet and capableof preserving a secret.'

　　"I bowed, feeling as flattered as any young man would at such anaddress. 'May I ask who it was who gave me so good a character?'"'Well, perhaps it is better that I should not tell you that just atthis moment. I have it from the same source that you are both anorphan and a bachelor and are residing alone in London.'"'That is quite correct,' I answered; 'but you will excuse me if Isay that I cannot see how all this bears upon my professionalqualifications. I understand that it was on a professional matter thatyou wished to speak to me?'

　　"'Undoubtedly so. But you will find that all I say is really tothe point. I have a professional commission for you, but absolutesecrecy is quite essential-absolute secrecy, you understand, and ofcourse we may expect that more from a man who is alone than from onewho lives in the bosom of his family.'

　　"'If I promise to keep a secret,' said I, 'you may absolutely dependupon my doing so.'

　　"He looked very hard at me as I spoke, and it seemed to me that Ihad never seen so suspicious and questioning an eye.

　　"'Do you promise, then?' said he at last.

　　"'Yes, I promise.'

　　"'Absolute and complete silence before, during, and after? Noreference to the matter at all, either in word or writing?'"'I have already given you my word.'

　　"'Very good.' He suddenly sprang up, and darting like lightningacross the room he flung open the door. The passage outside was empty."'That's all right,' said he, coming back. 'I know the clerks aresometimes curious as to their master's affairs. Now we can talk insafety.' He drew up his chair very close to mine and began to stare atme again with the same questioning and thoughtful look."A feeling of repulsion, and of something akin to fear had begunto rise within me at the strange antics of this fleshless man. Even mydread of losing a client could not restrain me from showing myimpatience.

　　"'I beg that you will state your business, sir,' said I; 'my time isof value.' Heaven forgive me for that last sentence, but the wordscame to my lips.

　　"'How would fifty guineas for a night's work suit you?' he asked."'Most admirably.'

　　"'I say a night's work, but an hour's would be nearer the mark. Isimply want your opinion about a hydraulic stamping machine whichhas got out of gear. If you show us what is wrong we shall soon set itright ourselves. What do you think of such a commission as that?'"'The work appears to be light and the pay munificent.'"'Precisely so. We shall want you to come to-night by the lasttrain.'

　　"'Where to?'

　　"'To Eyford, in Berkshire. It is a little place near the bordersof Oxfordshire, and within seven miles of Reading. There is a trainfrom Paddington which would bring you there at about 11:15.'"'Very good.'

　　"'I shall come down in a carriage to meet you.'

　　"'There is a drive, then?'

　　"'Yes, our little place is quite out in the country. It is a goodseven miles from Eyford Station.'

　　"'Then we can hardly get there before midnight. I suppose therewould be no chance of a train back. I should be compelled to stopthe night.'

　　"'Yes, we could easily give you a shake-down.'

　　"'That is very awkward. Could I not come at some more convenienthour?'

　　"'We have judged it best that you should come late. It is torecompense you for any inconvenience that we are paying to you, ayoung and unknown man, a fee which would buy an opinion from thevery heads of your profession. Still, of course, if you would liketo draw out of the business, there is plenty of time to do so.'"I thought of the fifty guineas, and of how very useful they wouldbe to me. 'Not at all,' said I, 'I shall be very happy toaccommodate myself to your wishes. I should like, however, tounderstand a little more clearly what it is that you wish me to do.'"'Quite so. It is very natural that the pledge of secrecy which wehave exacted from you should have aroused your curiosity. I have nowish to commit you to anything without your having it all laidbefore you. I suppose that we are absolutely safe from eavesdroppers?'"'Entirely.'

　　"'Then the matter stands thus. You are probably aware thatfuller's-earth is a valuable product. and that it is only found in oneor two places in England?'

　　"'I have heard so.'

　　"'Some little time ago I bought a small place-a very smallplace-within ten miles of Reading. I was fortunate enough todiscover that there was a deposit of fuller's-earth in one of myfields. On examining it, however, I found that this deposit was acomparatively small one, and that it formed a link between two verymuch larger ones upon the right and left-both of them, however, in thegrounds of my neighbours. These good people were absolutely ignorantthat their land contained that which was quite as valuable as agold-mine. Naturally, it was to my interest to buy their land beforethey discovered its true value, but unfortunately I had no capitalby which I could do this. I took a few of my friends into thesecret, however, and they suggested that we should quietly andsecretly work our own little deposit, and that in this way we shouldearn the money which would enable us to buy the neighbouring fields.This we have now been doing for some time, and in order to help usin our operations we erected a hydraulic press. This press, as Ihave already explained, has got out of order, and we wish youradvice upon the subject. We guard our secret very jealously,however, and if it once became known that we had hydraulic engineerscoming to our little house, it would soon rouse inquiry, and then,if the facts came out, it would be good-bye to any chance of gettingthese fields and carrying out our plans. That is why I have made youpromise me that you will not tell a human being that you are goingto Eyford to-night. I hope that I make it all plain?'

　　"'I quite follow you,' said I. 'The only point which I could notquite understand was what use you could make of a hydraulic press inexcavating fuller's-earth, which, as I understand, is dug out likegravel from a pit.'

　　"'Ah!' said he carelessly, 'we have our own process. We compress theearth into bricks, so as to remove them without revealing what theyare. But that is a mere detail. I have taken you fully into myconfidence now, Mr. Hatherley, and I have shown you how I trustyou.' He rose as he spoke. 'I shall expect you, then, at Eyford at11:15.'

　　"'I shall certainly be there.'

　　"'And not a word to a soul.' He looked at me with a last, long,questioning gaze, and then, pressing my band in a cold, dank grasp, hehurried from the room.

　　"Well, when I came to think it all over in cool blood I was verymuch astonished, as you may both think, at this sudden commissionwhich had been intrusted to me. On the one hand, of course, I wasglad, for the fee was at least tenfold what I should have asked hadI set a price upon my own services, and it was possible that thisorder might lead to other ones. On the other hand, the face and mannerof my patron had made an unpleasant impression upon me, and I couldnot think that his explanation of the fullers-earth was sufficientto explain the necessity for my coming at midnight, and his extremeanxiety lest I should tell anyone of my errand. However, I threw allfears to the winds, ate a hearty supper, drove to Paddington, andstarted off, having obeyed to the letter the injunction as toholding my tongue.

　　"At Reading I had to change not only my carriage but my station.However, I was in time for the last train to Eyford, and I reached thelittle dim-lit station after eleven o'clock. I was the onlypassenger who got out there, and there was no one upon the platformsave a single sleepy porter with a lanter. As I passed out through thewicket gate, however, I found my acquaintance of the morning waitingin the shadow upon the other side. Without a word he grasped my armand hurried me into a carriage, the door of which was standing open.He drew up the windows on either side, tapped on the wood-work, andaway we went as fast as the horse could go."

　　"One horse?" interjected Holmes.

　　"Yes, only one."

　　"Did you observe the colour?"

　　"Yes, I saw it by the side-lights when I was stepping into thecarriage. It was a chestnut."

　　"Tired-looking or fresh?"

　　"Oh, fresh and glossy."

　　"Thank you. I am sorry to have interrupted you. Pray continue yourmost interesting statement."

　　"Away we went then, and we drove for at least an hour. ColonelLysander Stark had said that it was only seven miles, but I shouldthink, from the rate that we seemed to go, and from the time that wetook, that it must have been nearer twelve. He sat at my side insilence all the time, and I was aware, more than once when I glancedin his direction, that he was looking at me with great intensity.The country roads seem to be not very good in that part of theworld, for we lurched and jolted terribly. I tried to look out ofthe windows to see something of where we were, but they were made offrosted glass, and I could make out nothing save the occasional brightblur of a passing light. Now and then I hazarded some remark tobreak the monotony of the journey, but the colonel answered only inmonosyllables, and the conversation soon flagged. At last, however,the bumping of the road was exchanged for the crisp smoothness of agravel-drive, and the carriage came to a stand. Colonel Lysander Starksprang out, and, as I followed after him, pushed me swiftly into aporch which gaped in front of us. We stepped, as it were, right out ofthe carriage and into the hall, so that I failed to catch the mostfleeting glance of the front of the house. The instant that I hadcrossed the threshold the door slammed heavily behind us, and Iheard faintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage drove away."It was pitch dark inside the house, and the colonel fumbled aboutlooking for matches and muttering under his breath. Suddenly a dooropened at the other end of the passage, and a long, golden bar oflight shot out in our direction. It grew broader, and a woman appearedwith a lamp in her hand, which she held above her head, pushing herface forward and peering at us. I could see that she was pretty, andfrom the gloss with which the light shone upon her dark dress I knewthat it was a rich material. She spoke a few words in a foreign tonguein a tone as though asking a question, and when my companionanswered in a gruff monosyllable she gave such a start that the lampnearly fell from her hand. Colonel Stark went up to her, whisperedsomething in her ear, and then, pushing her back into the room fromwhence she had come, he walked towards me again with the lamp in hishand.

　　"'Perhaps you will have the kindness to wait in this room for afew minutes,' said he, throwing open another door. It was a quiet,little, plainly furnished room, with a round table in the centre, onwhich several German books were scattered. Colonel Stark laid down thelamp on the top of a harmonium beside the door. 'I shall not keepyou waiting an instant,' said he, and vanished into the darkness."I glanced at the books upon the table, and in spite of my ignoranceof German I could see that two of them were treatises on science,the others being volumes of poetry. Then I walked across to thewindow, hoping that I might catch some glimpse of the country-side,but an oak shutter, heavily barred, was folded across it. It was awonderfully silent house. There was an old clock ticking loudlysomewhere in the passage, but otherwise everything was deadly still. Avague feeling of uneasiness began to steal over me. Who were theseGerman people, and what were they doing living in this strange,out-of-the-way place? And where was the place? I was ten miles or sofrom Eyford, that was all I knew, but whether north, south, east, orwest I had no idea. For that matter, Reading, and possibly other largetowns, were within that radius, so the place might not be so secluded,after all. Yet it was quite certain, from the absolute stillness, thatwe were in the country. I paced up and down the room, humming a tuneunder my breath to keep up my spirits and feeling that I wasthoroughly earning my fifty-guinea fee.

　　"Suddenly, without any preliminary sound in the midst of the utterstillness, the door of my room swung slowly open. The woman wasstanding in the aperture, the darkness of the hall behind her, theyellow light from my lamp beating upon her eager and beautiful face. Icould see at a glance that she was sick with fear, and the sightsent a chill to my own heart. She held up one shaking finger to warnme to be silent, and she shot a few whispered words of brokenEnglish at me, her eyes glancing back, like those of a frightenedhorse, into the gloom behind her.

　　"'I would go,' said she, trying hard, as it seemed to me, to speakcalmly, 'I would go. I should not stay here. There is no good foryou to do.'

　　"'But, madam,' said I, 'I have not yet done what I came for. Icannot possibly leave until I have seen the machine.'

　　"'It is not worth your while to wait,' she went on. 'You can passthrough the door; no one hinders.' And then, seeing that I smiledand shook my head, she suddenly threw aside her constraint and madea step forward, with her hands wrang together. 'For the love ofHeaven!' she whispered, 'get away from here before it is too late!'"But I am somewhat headstrong by nature, and the more ready toengage in an affair when there is some obstacle in the way. Ithought of my fifty-guinea fee, of my wearisome journey, and of theunpleasant night which seemed to be before me. Was it all to go fornothing? Why should I slink away without having carried out mycommission, and without the payment which was my due? This womanmight, for all I knew, be a monomaniac. With a stout bearing,therefore, though her manner had shaken me more than I cared toconfess, I still shook my head and declared my intention ofremaining where I was. She was about to renew her entreaties when adoor slammed overhead, and the sound of several footsteps was heardupon the stairs. She listened for an instant, threw up her handswith a despairing gesture, and vanished as suddenly and as noiselesslyas she had come.

　　"The newcomers were Colonel Lysander Stark and a short thick manwith a chinchilla beard growing out of the creases of his double chin,who was introduced to me as Mr. Ferguson.

　　"'This is my secretary and manager,' said the colonel. 'By theway, I was under the impression that I left this door shut just now. Ifear that you have felt the draught.'

　　"'On the contrary,' said I, 'I opened the door myself because I feltthe room to be a little close.'

　　"He shot one of his suspicious looks at me. 'Perhaps we had betterproceed to business, then,' said he. 'Mr. Ferguson and I will take youup to see the machine.'

　　"'I had better put my hat on, I suppose.'

　　"'Oh, no, it is in the house.'

　　"'What, you dig fuller's-earth in the house?'

　　"'No, no. This is only where we compress it. But never mind that.All we wish you to do is to examine the machine and to let us knowwhat is wrong with it.'

　　"We went upstairs together, the colonel first with the lamp, the fatmanager and I behind him. It was a labyrinth of an old house, withcorridors, passages, narrow winding staircases, and little lowdoors, the thresholds of which were hollowed out by the generationswho had crossed them. There were no carpets and no signs of anyfurniture above the ground floor, while the plaster was peeling offthe walls, and the damp was breaking through in green, unhealthyblotches. I tried to put on as unconcerned an air as possible, but Ihad not forgotten the warnings of the lady, even though Idisregarded them, and I kept a keen eye upon my two companions.Ferguson appeared to be a morose and silent man, but I could seefrom the little that he said that he was at least a fellow-countryman."Colonel Lysander Stark stopped at last before a low door, whichhe unlocked. Within was a small, square room, in which the three of uscould hardly get at one time. Ferguson remained outside, and thecolonel ushered me in.

　　"'We are now,' said he, 'actually within the hydraulic press, and itwould be a particularly unpleasant thing for us if anyone were to turnit on. The ceiling of this small chamber is really the end of thedescending piston, and it comes down with the force of many tonsupon this metal floor. There are small lateral columns of wateroutside which receive the force, and which transmit and multiply it inthe manner which is familiar to you. The machine goes readilyenough, but there is some stiffness in the working of it, and it haslost a little of its force. Perhaps you will have the goodness to lookit over and to show us how we can set it right.'

　　"I took the lamp from him, and I examined the machine verythoroughly. It was indeed a gigantic one, and capable of exercisingenormous pressure. When I passed outside, however, and pressed downthe levers which controlled it, I knew at once by the whishing soundthat there was a slight leakage, which allowed a regurgitation ofwater through one of the side cylinders. An examination showed thatone of the india-rubber bands which was round the head of adriving-rod had shrunk so as not quite to fill the socket alongwhich it worked. This was clearly the cause of the loss of power,and I pointed it out to my companions, who followed my remarks verycarefully and asked several practical questions as to how theyshould proceed to set it right. When I had made it clear to them, Ireturned to the main chamber of the machine and took a good look at itto satisfy my own curiosity. It was obvious at a glance that the storyof the fuller's-earth was the merest fabrication, for it would beabsurd to suppose that so powerful an engine could be designed forso inadequate a purpose. The walls were of wood, but the floorconsisted of a large iron trough, and when I came to examine it Icould see a crust of metallic deposit all over it. I had stooped andwas scraping at this to see exactly what it was when I heard amuttered exclamation in German and saw the cadaverous face of thecolonel looking down at me.

　　"'What are you doing there?' he asked.

　　"I felt angry at having been tricked by so elaborate a story as thatwhich he had told me. 'I was admiring your fuller's-earth,' said I; 'Ithink that I should be better able to advise you as to your machine ifI knew what the exact purpose was for which it was used.'"The instant that I uttered the words I regretted the rashness of myspeech. His face set hard, and a baleful light sprang up in his grayeyes.

　　"'Very well,' said he, 'you shall know all about the machine.' Hetook a step backward, slammed the little door, and turned the key inthe lock. I rushed towards it and pulled at the handle, but it wasquite secure, and did not give in the least to my kicks and shoves.'Hello!' I yelled. 'Hello! Colonel! Let me out!'

　　"And then suddenly in the silence I heard a sound which sent myheart into my mouth. It was the clank of the levers and the swish ofthe leaking cylinder. He had set the engine at work. The lamp stillstood upon the floor where I had placed it when examining thetrough. By its light I saw that the black ceiling was coming down uponme, slowly, jerkily, but as none knew better than myself, with a forcewhich must within a minute grind me to a shapeless pulp. I threwmyself, screaming, against the door, and dragged with my nails atthe lock. I implored the colonel to let me out, but the remorselessclanking of the levers drowned my cries. The ceiling was only a footor two above my head, and with my hand upraised I could feel its hard,rough surface. Then it flashed through my mind that the pain of mydeath would depend very much upon the position in which I met it. If Ilay on my face the weight would come upon my spine, and I shuddered tothink of that dreadful snap. Easier the other way, perhaps; and yet,had I the nerve to lie and look up at that deadly black shadowwavering down upon me? Already I was unable to stand erect, when myeye caught something which brought a gush of hope back to my heart."I have said that though the floor and ceiling were of iron, thewalls were of wood. As I gave a last hurried glance around, I saw athin line of yellow light between two of the boards, which broadenedand broadened as a small panel was pushed backward. For an instant Icould hardly believe that here was indeed a door which led away fromdeath. The next instant I threw myself through, and layhalf-fainting upon the other side. the panel had closed again behindme, but the crash of the lamp, and a few moments afterwards theclang of the two slabs of metal, told me how narrow had been myescape.

　　"I was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking at my wrist, and Ifound myself lying upon the stone floor of a narrow corridor, whilea woman bent over me and tugged at me with her left hand, while sheheld a candle in her right. It was the same good friend whosewarning I had so foolishly rejected.

　　"'Come! come!' she cried breathlessly. 'They will be here in amoment. They will see that you are not there. Oh, do not waste theso-precious time, but come!'

　　"This time, at least, I did not scorn her advice. I staggered tomy feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a windingstair. The latter led to another broad passage, and just as we reachedit we heard the sound of running feet and the shouting of twovoices, one answering the other from the floor on which we were andfrom the one beneath. My guide stopped and looked about her like onewho is at her wit's end. Then she threw open a door which led into abedroom, through the window of which the moon was shining brightly."'It is your only chance,' said she. 'It is high, but it may be thatyou can jump it.'

　　"As she spoke a light sprang into view at the further end of thepassage, and I saw the lean figure of Colonel Lysander Stark rushingforward with a lantern in one hand and a weapon like a butcherscleaver in the other. I rushed across the bedroom, flung open thewindow, and looked out. How quiet and sweet and wholesome the gardenlooked in the moonlight, and it could not be more than thirty feetdown. I clambered out upon the sill, but I hesitated to jump until Ishould have heard what passed between my saviour and the ruffian whopursued me. If she were ill-used, then at any risks I was determinedto go back to her assistance. The thought had hardly flashed throughmy mind before be was at the door, pushing his way past her; but shethrew her arms round him and tried to hold him back.

　　"'Fritz! Fritz!' she cried in English, 'remember your promiseafter the last time. You said it should not be again. He will besilent! Oh, he will be silent!'

　　"'You are mad, Elise!' he shouted, struggling to break away fromher. 'You will be the ruin of us. He has seen too much. Let me pass, Isay!' He dashed her to one side, and, rushing to the window, cut at mewith his heavy weapon. I had let myself go, and was hanging by thehands to the sill, when his blow fell. I was conscious of a dull pain,my grip loosened, and I fell into the garden below.

　　"I was shaken but not hurt by the fall; so I picked myself up andrushed off among the bushes as hard as I could run, for I understoodthat I was far from being out of danger yet. Suddenly, however, as Iran, a deadly dizziness and sickness came over me. I glanced down atmy hand, which was throbbing painfully, and then, for the firsttime, saw that my thumb had been cut off and that the blood waspouring from my wound. I endeavoured to tie my handkerchief roundit, but there came a sudden buzzing in my ears, and next moment I fellin a dead faint among the rose-bushes.

　　"How long I remained unconscious I cannot tell. It must have beena very long time, for the moon had sunk, and a bright morning wasbreaking when I came to myself. My clothes were all sodden with dew,and my coat-sleeve was drenched with blood from my wounded thumb.The smarting of it recalled in an instant all the particulars of mynight's adventure, and I sprang to my feet with the feeling that Imight hardly yet be safe from my pursuers. But to my astonishment,when I came to look round me, neither house nor garden were to beseen. I had been lying in an angle of the hedge close by the highroad,and just a little lower down was a long building, which proved, uponmy approaching it, to be the very station at which I had arrivedupon the previous night. Were it not for the ugly wound upon myhand, all that had passed during those dreadful hours might havebeen an evil dream.

　　"Half dazed, I went into the station and asked about the morningtrain. There would be one to Reading in less than an hour. The sameporter was on duty, I found, as had been there when I arrived. Iinquired of him whether he had ever heard of Colonel Lysander Stark.The name was strange to him. Had he observed a carriage the nightbefore waiting for me? No, he had not. Was there a police stationanywhere near? There was one about three miles off.

　　"It was too far for me to go, weak and ill as I was. I determined towait until I got back to town before telling my story to the police.It was a little past six when I arrived, so I went first to have mywound dressed, and then the doctor was kind enough to bring me alonghere. I put the case into your hands and shall do exactly what youadvise."

　　We both sat in silence for some little time after listening tothis extraordinary narrative. Then Sherlock Holmes pulled down fromthe shelf one of the ponderous commonplace books in which he placedhis cuttings.

　　"Here is an advertisement which will interest you," said he. "Itappeared in all the papers about a year ago. Listen to this:"Lost, on the 9th inst., Mr. Jeremiah Hayling, aged twenty-six, ahydraulic engineer. Left his lodgings at ten o'clock at night, and hasnot been heard of since. Was dressed in-

　　etc., etc. Ha! That represents the last time that the colonel neededto have his machine overhauled, I fancy."

　　"Good heavens!" cried my patient. "Then that explains what thegirl said."

　　"Undoubtedly. It is quite clear that the colonel was a cool anddesperate man, who was absolutely determined that nothing should standin the way of his little game, like those out-and-out pirates who willleave no survivor from a captured ship. Well, every moment now isprecious, so if you feel equal to it we shall go down to Scotland Yardat once as a preliminary to starting for Eyford."

　　Some three hours or so afterwards we were all in the train together,bound from Reading to the little Berkshire village. There wereSherlock Holmes, the hydraulic engineer, Inspector Bradstreet, ofScotland Yard, a plain-clothes man, and myself. Bradstreet hadspread an ordnance map of the county out upon the seat and was busywith his compasses drawing a circle with Eyford for its centre."There you are," said he. "That circle is drawn at a radius of tenmiles from the village. The place we want must be somewhere nearthat line. You said ten miles, I think, sir."

　　"It was an hour's good drive."

　　"And you think that they brought you back all that way when you wereunconscious?"

　　"They must have done so. I have a confused memory, too, of havingbeen lifted and conveyed somewhere."

　　"What I cannot understand," said I, "is why they should havespared you when they found you lying fainting in the garden. Perhapsthe villain was softened by the woman's entreaties."

　　"I hardly think that likely. I never saw a more inexorable face inmy life."

　　"Oh, we shall soon clear up all that," said Bradstreet. "Well, Ihave drawn my circle, and I only wish I knew at what point upon it thefolk that we are in search of are to be found."

　　"I think I could lay my finger on it," said Holmes quietly."Really, now!" cried the inspector, "you have formed your opinion!Come, now, we shall see who agrees with you. I say it is south, forthe country is more deserted there."

　　"And I say east," said my patient.

　　"I am for west," remarked the plain-clothes man. "There areseveral quiet little villages up there."

　　"And I am for north," said I, "because there are no hills there, andour friend says that he did not notice the carriage go up any.""Come," cried the inspector, laughing, "it's a very pretty diversityof opinion. "We have boxed the compass among us. Who do you giveyour casting vote to?"

　　"You are all wrong."

　　"But we can't all be."

　　"Oh, yes, you can. This is my point." He placed his finger in thecentre of the circle. "This is where we shall find them.""But the twelve-mile drive?" gasped Hatherley.

　　"Six out and six back. Nothing simpler. You say yourself that thehorse was fresh and glossy when you got in. How could it be that if ithad gone twelve miles over heavy roads?"

　　"Indeed, it is a likely ruse enough," observed Bradstreetthoughtfully. "Of course there can be no doubt as to the nature ofthis gang."

　　"None at all," said Holmes. "They are coiners on a large scale,and have used the machine to form the amalgam which has taken theplace of silver."

　　"We have known for some time that a clever gang was at work," saidthe inspector. "They have been turning out half-crowns by thethousand. We even traced them as far as Reading, but could get nofarther, for they had covered their traces in a way that showed thatthey were very old hands. But now, thanks to this lucky chance, Ithink that we have got them right enough."

　　But the inspector was mistaken, for those criminals were notdestined to fall into the hands of justice. As we rolled into EyfordStation we saw a gigantic column of smoke which streamed up frombehind a small clump of trees in the neighbourhood and hung like animmense ostrich feather over the landscape.

　　"A house on fire?" asked Bradstreet as the train steamed off againon its way.

　　"Yes, sir!" said the station-master.

　　"When did it break out?"

　　"I hear that it was during the night, sir, but it has got worse, andthe whole place is in a blaze."

　　"Whose house is it?"

　　"Dr. Becher's."

　　"Tell me," broke in the engineer, "is Dr. Becher a German, verythin, with a long, sharp nose?"

　　The station-master laughed heartily. "No, sir, Dr. Becher is anEnglishman, and there isn't a man in the parish who has a better-linedwaistcoat. But he has a gentleman staying with him, a patient, as Iunderstand, who is a foreigner, and he looks as if a little goodBerkshire beef would do him no harm."

　　The station-master had not finished his speech before we were allhastening in the direction of the fire. The road topped a low hill,and there was a great widespread whitewashed building in front ofus, spouting fire at every chink and window, while in the garden infront three fire-engines were vainly striving to keep the flamesunder.

　　"That's it!" cried Hatherley, in intense excitement. "There is thegravel-drive, and there are the rose-bushes where I lay. That secondwindow is the one that I jumped from."

　　"Well, at least," said Holmes, "you have had your revenge upon them.There can be no question that it was your oillamp which, when it wascrushed in the Press, set fire to the wooden walls, though no doubtthey were too excited in the chase after you to observe it at thetime. Now your eyes open in this crowd for your friends of last night,though I very much fear that they are a good hundred miles off bynow."

　　And Holmes's fears came to be realized, for from that day to this noword has ever been heard either of the beautiful woman, the sinisterGerman, or the morose Englishman. Early that morning a peasant had meta cart containing several people and some very bulky boxes drivingrapidly in the direction of Reading, but there all traces of thefugitives disappeared, and even Holmes's ingenuity failed ever todiscover the least clue as to their whereabouts.

　　The firemen had been much perturbed at the strange arrangementswhich they had found within, and still more so by discovering anewly severed human thumb upon a window-sill of the second floor.About sunset, however, their efforts were at last successful, and theysubdued the flames, but not before the roof had fallen in, and thewhole place been reduced to such absolute ruin that, save some twistedcylinders and iron piping, not a trace remained of the machinery whichhad cost our unfortunate acquaintance so dearly. Large masses ofnickel and of tin were discovered stored in an out-house, but no coinswere to be found, which may have explained the presence of those bulkyboxes which have been already referred to.

　　How our hydraulic engineer had been conveyed from the garden tothe spot where he recovered his senses might have remained forever amystery were it not for the soft mould, which told us a very plaintale. He had evidently been carried down by two persons, one of whomhad remarkably small feet and the other unusually large ones. On thewhole, it was most probable that the silent Englishman, being lessbold or less murderous than his companion, had assisted the woman tobear the unconscious man out of the way of danger.

　　"Well," said our engineer ruefully as we took our seats to returnonce more to London, "it has been a pretty business for me! I havelost my thumb and I have lost a fifty-guinea fee, and what have Igained?"

　　"Experience," said Holmes, laughing. "Indirectly it may be of value,you know; you have only to put it into words to gain the reputation ofbeing excellent company for the remainder of your existence."-THE END-

　　.

　　1904

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE GOLDEN PINCE-NEZ

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　When I look at the three massive manuscript volumes which containour work for the year 1894, I confess that it is very difficult forme, out of such a wealth of material, to select the cases which aremost interesting in themselves, and at the same time most conducive toa display of those peculiar powers for which my friend was famous.As I turn over the pages, I see my notes upon the repulsive story ofthe red leech and the terrible death of Crosby, the banker. Herealso I find an account of the Addleton tragedy, and the singularcontents of the ancient British barrow. The famous Smith-Mortimersuccession case comes also within this period, and so does thetracking and arrest of Huret, the Boulevard assassin- an exploit whichwon for Holmes an autograph letter of thanks from the French Presidentand the Order of the Legion of Honour. Each of these would furnish anarrative, but on the whole I am of opinion that none of them unitesso many singular points of interest as the episode of Yoxley OldPlace, which includes not only the lamentable death of youngWilloughby Smith, but also those subsequent developments which threwso curious a light upon the causes of the crime.

　　It was a wild, tempestuous night, towards the close of November.Holmes and I sat together in silence all the evening, be engagedwith a powerful lens deciphering the remains of the originalinscription upon a palimpsest, I deep in a recent treatise uponsurgery. Outside the wind howled down Baker Street, while the rainbeat fiercely against the windows. It was strange there, in the verydepths of the town, with ten miles of man's handiwork on every side ofus, to feel the iron grip of Nature, and to be conscious that to thehuge elemental forces all London was no more than the molehills thatdot the fields. I walked to the window, and looked out on the desertedstreet. The occasional lamps gleamed on the expanse of muddy roadand shining pavement. A single cab was splashing its way from theOxford Street end.

　　"Well, Watson, it's as well we have not to turn out to-night,"said Holmes, laying aside his lens and rolling up the palimpsest."I've done enough for one sitting. It is trying work for the eyes.So far as I can make out, it is nothing more exciting than anAbbey's accounts dating from the second half of the fifteenth century.Halloa! halloa! halloa! What's this?"

　　Amid the droning of the wind there had come the stamping of ahorse's hoofs, and the long grind of a wheel as it rasped againstthe curb. The cab which I had seen had pulled up at our door."What can he want?" I ejaculated, as a man stepped out of it."Want? He wants us. And we, my poor Watson, want overcoats andcravats and goloshes, and every aid that man ever invented to fightthe weather. Wait a bit, though! There's the cab off again! There'shope yet. He'd have kept it if he had wanted us to come. Run down,my dear fellow, and open the door, for all virtuous folk have beenlong in bed."

　　When the light of the hall lamp fell upon our midnight visitor, Ihad no difficulty in recognizing him. It was young Stanley Hopkins,a promising detective, in whose career Holmes had several timesshown a very practical interest.

　　"Is he in?" he asked, eagerly.

　　"Come up, my dear sir," said Holmes's voice from above. "I hopeyou have no designs upon us such a night as this."

　　The detective mounted the stairs, and our lamp gleamed upon hisshining waterproof. I helped him out of it, while Holmes knocked ablaze out of the logs in the grate.

　　"Now, my dear Hopkins, draw up and warm your toes," said he. "Here'sa cigar, and the doctor has a prescription containing hot water anda lemon, which is good medicine on a night like this. It must besomething important which has brought you out in such a gale.""It is indeed, Mr. Holmes. I've had a bustling afternoon, Ipromise you. Did you see anything of the Yoxley case in the latesteditions?"

　　"I've seen nothing later than the fifteenth century to-day.""Well, it was only a paragraph, and all wrong at that, so you havenot missed anything. I haven't let the grass grow under my feet.It's down in Kent, seven miles from Chatham and three from the railwayline. I was wired for at 3:15, reached Yoxley Old Place at 5,conducted my investigation, was back at Charing Cross by the lasttrain, and straight to you by cab."

　　"Which means, I suppose, that you are not quite clear about yourcase?"

　　"It means that I can make neither head nor tail of it. So far as Ican see, it is just as tangled a business as ever I handled, and yetat first it seemed so simple that one couldn't go wrong. There's nomotive, Mr. Holmes. That's what bothers me- I can't put my hand on amotive. Here's a man dead- there's no denying that- but, so far as Ican see, no reason on earth why anyone should wish him harm."Holmes lit his cigar and leaned back in his chair.

　　"Let us hear about it," said he.

　　"I've got my facts pretty clear," said Stanley Hopkins. "All Iwant now is to know what they all mean. The story, so far as I canmake it out, is like this. Some years ago this country house, YoxleyOld Place, was taken by an elderly man, who gave the name of ProfessorCoram. He was an invalid, keeping his bed half the time, and the otherhalf hobbling round the house with a stick or being pushed about thegrounds by the gardener in a Bath chair. He was well liked by thefew neighbours who called upon him, and he has the reputation downthere of being a very learned man. His household used to consist of anelderly housekeeper, Mrs. Marker, and of a maid, Susan Tarlton.These have both been with him since his arrival, and they seem to bewomen of excellent character. The professor is writing a learned book,and he found it necessary, about a year ago, to engage a secretary.The first two that he tried were not successes, but the third, Mr.Willoughby Smith, a very young man straight from the university, seemsto have been just what his employer wanted. His work consisted inwriting all the morning to the professor's dictation, and he usuallyspent the evening in hunting up references and passages which boreupon the next day's work. This Willoughby Smith has nothing againsthim, either as a boy at Uppingham or as a young man at Cambridge. Ihave seen his testimonials, and from the first he was a decent, quiet,hard-worlding fellow, with no weak spot in him at all. And yet this isthe lad who has met his death this morning in the professor's studyunder circumstances which can point only to murder."

　　The wind howled and screamed at the windows. Holmes and I drewcloser to the fire, while the young inspector slowly and point bypoint developed his singular narrative.

　　"If you were to search all England," said he, "I don't suppose youcould find a household more self-contained or freer from outsideinfluences. Whole weeks would pass, and not one of them go past thegarden gate. The professor was buried in his work and existed fornothing else. Young Smith knew nobody in the neighbourhood, andlived very much as his employer did. The two women had nothing to takethem from the house. Mortimer, the gardener, who wheels the Bathchair, is an army pensioner- an old Crimean man of excellentcharacter. He does not live in the house, but in a three-roomedcottage at the other end of the garden. Those are the only people thatyou would find within the grounds of Yoxley Old Place. At the sametime, the gate of the garden is a hundred yards from the main Londonto Chatham road. It opens with a latch, and there is nothing toprevent anyone from walking in.

　　"Now I will give you the evidence of Susan Tarlton, who is theonly person who can say anything positive about the matter. It wasin the forenoon, between eleven and twelve. She was engaged at themoment in hanging some curtains in the upstairs front bedroom.Professor Coram was still in bed, for when the weather is bad heseldom rises before midday. The housekeeper was busied with somework in the back of the house. Willoughby Smith had been in hisbedroom, which he uses as a sitting-room, but the maid heard him atthat moment pass along the passage and descend to the studyimmediately below her. She did not see him, but she says that shecould not be mistaken in his quick, firm tread. She did not hear thestudy door close, but a minute or so later there was a dreadful cry inthe room below. It was a wild, hoarse scream, so strange and unnaturalthat it might have come either from a man or a woman. At the sameinstant there was a heavy thud, which shook the old house, and thenall was silence. The maid stood petrified for a moment, and then,recovering her courage, she ran downstairs. The study door was shutand she opened it. Inside, young Mr. Willoughby Smith was stretchedupon the floor. At first she could see no injury, but as she triedto raise him she saw that blood was pouring from the underside ofhis neck. It was pierced by a very small but very deep wound, whichhad divided the carotid artery. The instrument with which the injuryhad been inflicted lay upon the carpet beside him. It was one of thosesmall sealing-wax knives to be found on old-fashioned writingtables, with an ivory handle and a stiff blade. It was part of thefittings of the professor's own desk.

　　"At first the maid thought that young Smith was already dead, but onpouring some water from the carafe over his forehead he opened hiseyes for an instant. 'The professor,' he murmured- 'it was she.' Themaid is prepared to swear that those were the exact words. He trieddesperately to say something else, and he held his right hand up inthe air. Then he fell back dead.

　　"In the meantime the housekeeper had also arrived upon the scene,but she was just too late to catch the young man's dying words.Leaving Susan with the body, she hurried to the professors room. Hewas sitting up in bed, horribly agitated, for he had heard enough toconvince him that something terrible had occurred. Mrs. Marker isprepared to swear that the professor was still in his night-clothes,and indeed it was impossible for him to dress without the help ofMortimer, whose orders were to come at twelve o'clock. The professordeclares that he heard the distant cry, but that he knows nothingmore. He can give no explanation of the young man's last words, 'Theprofessor- it was she,' but imagines that they were the outcome ofdelirium. He believes that Willoughby Smith had not an enemy in theworld, and can give no reason for the crime. His first action was tosend Mortimer, the gardener, for the local police. A little laterthe chief constable sent for me. Nothing was moved before I got there,and strict orders were given that no one should walk upon the pathsleading to the house. It was a splendid chance of putting yourtheories into practice, Mr. Sherlock Holmes. There was reallynothing wanting."

　　"Except Mr. Sherlock Holmes," said my companion, with a somewhatbitter smile. "Well, let us hear about it. What sort of a job didyou make of it?"

　　"I must ask you first, Mr. Holmes, to glance at this rough plan,which will give you a general idea of the position of theprofessor's study and the various points of the case. It will help youin my investigation."

　　He unfolded the rough chart, which I here reproduce, and he laidit across Holmes's knee. I rose and, standing behind Holmes, studiedit over his shoulder. (See illustration.)

　　"It is very rough, of course, and it only deals with the pointswhich seem to me to be essential. All the rest you will see laterfor yourself. Now, first of all, presuming that the assassin enteredthe house, how did he or she come in? Undoubtedly by the garden pathand the back door, from which there is direct access to the study. Anyother way would have been exceedingly complicated. The escape musthave also been made along that line, for of the two other exits fromthe room one was blocked by Susan as she ran downstairs and theother leads straight to the professor's bedroom. I thereforedirected my attention at once to the garden path, which wassaturated with recent rain, and would certainly show any footmarks."My examination showed me that I was dealing with a cautious andexpert criminal. No footmarks were to be found on the path. Therecould be no question, however, that someone had passed along the grassborder which lines the path, and that he had done so in order to avoidleaving a track. I could not find anything in the nature of a distinctimpression, but the grass was trodden down, and someone hadundoubtedly passed. It could only have been the murderer, sinceneither the gardener nor anyone else had been there that morning,and the rain had only begun during the night."

　　"One moment," said Holmes. "Where does this path lead to?""To the road."

　　"How long is it?"

　　"A hundred yards or so."

　　"At the point where the path passes through the gate, you couldsurely pick up the tracks?"

　　"Unfortunately, the path was tiled at that point."

　　"Well, on the road itself?"

　　"No, it was all trodden into mire."

　　"Tut-tut! Well, then, these tracks upon the grass, were theycoming or going?"

　　"It was impossible to say. There was never any outline.""A large foot or a small?"

　　"You could not distinguish."

　　Holmes gave an ejaculation of impatience.

　　"It has been pouring rain and blowing a hurricane ever since,"said be. "It will be harder to read now than that palimpsest. Well,well, it can't be helped. What did you do, Hopkins, after you had madecertain that you had made certain of nothing?"

　　"I think I made certain of a good deal, Mr. Holmes. I knew thatsomeone had entered the house cautiously from without. I next examinedthe corridor. It is lined with cocoanut matting and had taken noimpression of any kind. This brought me into the study itself. It is ascantily furnished room. The main article is a large writing-tablewith a fixed bureau. This bureau consists of a double column ofdrawers, with a central small cupboard between them. The drawerswere open, the cupboard locked. The drawers, it seems, were alwaysopen, and nothing of value was kept in them. There were some papers ofimportance in the cupboard, but there were no signs that this had beentampered with, and the professor assures me that nothing wasmissing. It is certain that no robbery has been committed."I come now to the body of the young man. It was found near thebureau, and just to the left of it, as marked upon that chart. Thestab was on the right side of the neck and from behind forward, sothat it is almost impossible that it could have been self-inflicted.""Unless he fell upon the knife," said Holmes.

　　"Exactly. The idea crossed my mind. But we found the knife some feetaway from the body, so that seems impossible. Then, of course, thereare the man's own dying words. And, finally, there was this veryimportant piece of evidence which was found clasped in the deadman's right hand."

　　From his pocket Stanley Hopkins drew a small paper packet. Heunfolded it and disclosed a golden pince-nez, with two broken endsof black silk cord dangling from the end of it. "Willoughby Smithhad excellent sight," he added. "There can be no question that thiswas snatched from the face or the person of the assassin."Sherlock Holmes took the glasses into his hand, and examined themwith the utmost attention and interest. He held them on his nose,endeavoured to read through them, went to the window and stared up thestreet with them, looked at them most minutely in the full light ofthe lamp, and finally, with a chuckle, seated himself at the table andwrote a few lines upon a sheet of paper, which he tossed across toStanley Hopkins.

　　"That's the best I can do for you," said he. "It may prove to beof some use."

　　The astonished detective read the note aloud. It ran as follows:"Wanted, a woman of good address, attired like a lady. She has aremarkably thick nose, with eyes which are set close upon eitherside of it. She has a puckered forehead, a peering expression, andprobably rounded shoulders. There are indications that she has hadrecourse to an optician at least twice during the last few months.As her glasses are of remarkable strength, and as opticians are notvery numerous, there should be no difficulty in tracing her."Holmes smiled at the astonishment of Hopkins, which must have beenreflected upon my features.

　　"Surely my deductions are simplicity itself," said he. "It would bedifficult to name any articles which afford a finer field forinference than a pair of glasses, especially so remarkable a pair asthese. That they belong to a woman I infer from their delicacy, andalso, of course, from the last words of the dying man. As to her beinga person of refinement and well dressed, they are, as you perceive,handsomely mounted in solid gold, and it is inconceivable thatanyone who wore such glasses could be slatternly in other respects.You will find that the clips are too wide for your nose, showingthat the lady's nose was very broad at the base. This sort of noseis usually a short and coarse one, but there is a sufficient number ofexceptions to prevent me from being dogmatic or from insisting uponthis point in my description. My own face is a narrow one, and yet Ifind that I cannot get my eyes into the centre, nor near the centre,of these glasses. Therefore, the lady's eyes are set very near tothe sides of the nose. You will perceive, Watson, that the glasses areconcave and of unusual strength. A lady whose vision has been soextremely contracted all her life is sure to have the physicalcharacteristics of such vision, which are seen in the forehead, theeyelids, and the shoulders."

　　"Yes," I said, "I can follow each of your arguments. I confess,however, that I am unable to understand how you arrive at the doublevisit to the optician."

　　Holmes took the glasses in his hand.

　　"You will perceive," he said, "that the clips are lined with tinybands of cork to soften the pressure upon the nose. One of these isdiscoloured and worn to some slight extent, but the other is new.Evidently one has fallen off and been replaced. I should judge thatthe older of them has not been there more than a few months. Theyexactly correspond, so I gather that the lady went back to the sameestablishment for the second."

　　"By George, it's marvellous!" cried Hopkins, in an ecstasy ofadmiration. "To think that I had all that evidence in my hand andnever knew it! I had intended, however, to go the round of theLondon opticians."

　　"Of course you would. Meanwhile, have you anything more to tell usabout the case?"

　　"Nothing, Mr. Holmes. I think that you know as much as I do now-probably more. We have had inquiries made as to any stranger seen onthe country roads or at the railway station. We have heard of none.What beats me is the utter want of all object in the crime. Not aghost of a motive can anyone suggest."

　　"Ah! there I am not in a position to help you. But I suppose youwant us to come out to-morrow?"

　　"If it is not asking too much, Mr. Holmes. There's a train fromCharing Cross to Chatham at six in the morning, and we should be atYoxley Old Place between eight and nine."

　　"Then we shall take it. Your case has certainly some features ofgreat interest, and I shall be delighted to look into it. Well, it'snearly one, and we had best get a few hours' sleep. I daresay youcan manage all right on the sofa in front of the fire. I'll light myspirit lamp, and give you a cup of coffee before we start."The gale had blown itself out next day, but it was a bittermorning when we started upon our journey. We saw the cold winter sunrise over the dreary marshes of the Thames and the long, suddenreaches of the river, which I shall ever associate with our pursuit ofthe Andaman Islander in the earlier days of our career. After a longand weary journey, we alighted at a small station some miles fromChatham. While a horse was being put into a trap at the local inn,we snatched a hurried breakfast, and so we were all ready for businesswhen we at last arrived at Yoxley Old Place. A constable met us at thegarden gate.

　　"Well, Wilson, any news?"

　　"No, sir- nothing."

　　"No reports of any stranger seen?"

　　"No, sir. Down at the station they are certain that no strangereither came or went yesterday."

　　"Have you had inquiries made at inns and lodgings?"

　　"Yes, sir: there is no one that we cannot account for.""Well, it's only a reasonable walk to Chatham. Anyone might staythere or take a train without being observed. This is the gardenpath of which I spoke, Mr. Holmes. I'll pledge my word there was nomark on it yesterday."

　　"On which side were the marks on the grass?"

　　"This side, sir. This narrow margin of grass between the path andthe flowerbed. I can't see the traces now, but they were clear to methen."

　　"Yes, yes: someone has passed along," said Holmes, stooping over thegrass border. "Our lady must have picked her steps carefully, must shenot, since on the one side she would leave a track on the path, and onthe other an even clearer one on the soft bed?"

　　"Yes, sir, she must have been a cool hand."

　　I saw an intent look pass over Holmes's face.

　　"You say that she must have come back this way?"

　　"Yes, sir, there is no other."

　　"On this strip of grass?"

　　"Certainly, Mr. Holmes."

　　"Hum! It was a very remarkable performance- very remarkable. Well, Ithink we have exhausted the path. Let us go farther. This gardendoor is usually kept open, I suppose? Then this visitor had nothing todo but to walk in. The idea of murder was not in her mind, or shewould have provided herself with some sort of weapon, instead ofhaving to pick this knife off the writing-table. She advanced alongthis corridor, leaving no traces upon the cocoanut matting. Then shefound herself in this study. How long was she there? We have nomeans of judging."

　　"Not more than a few minutes, sir. I forgot to tell you that Mrs.Marker, the housekeeper, had been in there tidying not very, longbefore- about a quarter of an hour, she says."

　　"Well, that gives us a limit. Our lady enters this room, and whatdoes she do? She goes over to the writing-table. What for? Not foranything in the drawers. If there had been anything worth hertaking, it would surely have been locked up. No, it was forsomething in that wooden bureau. Halloa! what is that scratch upon theface of it? Just hold a match, Watson. Why did you not tell me ofthis, Hopkins?"

　　The mark which he was examining began upon the brasswork on therighthand side of the keyhole, and extended for about four inches,where it had scratched the varnish from the surface.

　　"I noticed it, Mr. Holmes, but you'll always find scratches rounda keyhole."

　　"This is recent, quite recent. See how the brass shines where itis cut. An old scratch would be the same colour as the surface. Lookat it through my lens. There's the varnish, too, like earth on eachside of a furrow. Is Mrs. Marker there?"

　　A sad-faced, elderly woman came into the room.

　　"Did you dust this bureau yesterday morning?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"Did you notice this scratch?"

　　"No, sir, I did not."

　　"I am sure you did not, for a duster would have swept away theseshreds of varnish. Who has the key of this bureau?"

　　"The Professor keeps it on his watch-chain."

　　"Is it a simple key?"

　　"No, sir, it is a Chubb's key."

　　"Very good. Mrs. Marker, you can go. Now we are making a littleprogress. Our lady enters the room, advances to the bureau, and eitheropens it or tries to do so. While she is thus engaged, youngWilloughby Smith enters the room. In her hurry to withdraw the key,she makes this scratch upon the door. He seizes her, and she,snatching up the nearest object, which happens to be this knife,strikes at him in order to make him let go his hold. The blow is afatal one. He falls and she escapes, either with or without the objectfor which she has come. Is Susan, the maid, there? Could anyone havegot away through that door after the time that you heard the cry,Susan?"

　　"No sir, it is impossible. Before I got down the stair, I'd haveseen anyone in the passage. Besides, the door never opened, or I wouldhave heard it."

　　"That settles this exit. Then no doubt the lady went out the way shecame. I understand that this other passage leads only to theprofessor's room. There is no exit that way?"

　　"No, sir."

　　"We shall go down it and make the acquaintance of the professor.Halloa, Hopkins! this is very important, very important indeed. Theprofessor's corridor is also lined with cocoanut matting.""Well, sir, what of that?"

　　"Don't you see any bearing upon the case? Well, well. I don't insistupon it. No doubt I am wrong. And yet it seems to me to be suggestive.Come with me and introduce me."

　　We passed down the passage, which was of the same length as thatwhich led to the garden. At the end was a short flight of steps endingin a door. Our guide knocked, and then ushered us into the professor'sbedroom.

　　It was a very large chamber, lined with innumerable volumes, whichhad overflowed from the shelves and lay in piles in the corners, orwere stacked all round at the base of the cases. The bed was in thecentre of the room, and in it, propped up with pillows, was theowner of the house. I have seldom seen a more remarkable lookingperson. It was a gaunt, aquiline face which was turned towards us,with piercing dark eyes, which lurked in deep hollows under overhungand tufted brows. His hair and beard were white, save that thelatter was curiously stained with yellow around his mouth. A cigaretteglowed amid the tangle of white hair, and the air of the room wasfetid with stale tobacco smoke. As he held out his hand to Holmes, Iperceived that it was also stained with yellow nicotine."A smoker, Mr. Holmes?" said he, speaking in well-chosen English,with a curious little mincing accent. "Pray take a cigarette. And you,sir? I can recommend them, for I have them especially prepared byIonides, of Alexandria. He sends me a thousand at a time, and I grieveto say that I have to arrange for a fresh supply every fortnight. Bad,sir, very bad, but an old man has few pleasures. Tobacco and mywork- that is all that is left to me."

　　Holmes had lit a cigarette and was shooting little darting glancesall over the room.

　　"Tobacco and my work, but now only tobacco," the old manexclaimed. "Alas! what a fatal interruption! Who could have foreseensuch a terrible catastrophe? So estimable a young man! I assure youthat, after a few months' training, he was an admirable assistant.What do you think of the matter, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"I have not yet made up my mind."

　　"I shall indeed be indebted to you if you can throw a light whereall is so dark to us. To a poor bookworm and invalid like myselfsuch a blow is paralyzing. I seem to have lost the faculty of thought.But you are a man of action- you are a man of affairs. It is part ofthe everyday routine of your life. You can preserve your balance inevery emergency. We are fortunate, indeed, in having you at our side."Holmes was pacing up and down one side of the room whilst the oldprofessor was talking. I observed that he was smoking withextraordinary rapidity. It was evident that he shared our host'sliking for the fresh Alexandrian cigarettes.

　　"Yes, sir, it is a crushing blow," said the old man. "That is mymagnum opus- the pile of papers on the side table yonder. It is myanalysis of the documents found in the Coptic monasteries of Syria andEgypt, a work which will cut deep at the very foundation of revealedreligion. With my enfeebled health I do not know whether I shallever be able to complete it, now that my assistant has been taken fromme. Dear me! Mr. Holmes, why, you are even a quicker smoker than Iam myself."

　　Holmes smiled.

　　"I am a connoisseur," said he, taking another cigarette from thebox- his fourth- and lighting it from the stub of that which he hadfinished. "I will not trouble you with any lengthy

　　cross-examination, Professor Coram, since I gather that you were inbed at the time of the crime, and could know nothing about it. I wouldonly ask this: What do you imagine that this poor fellow meant byhis last words: 'The professor- it was she'?"

　　The professor shook his head.

　　"Susan is a country girl," said he, "and you know the incrediblestupidity of that class. I fancy that the poor fellow murmured someincoherent delirious words, and that she twisted them into thismeaningless message."

　　"I see. You have no explanation yourself of the tragedy?""Possibly an accident, possibly- I only breathe it amongourselves- a suicide. Young men have their hidden troubles- someaffair of the heart, perhaps, which we have never known. It is amore probable supposition than murder."

　　"But the eyeglasses?"

　　"Ah! I am only a student- a man of dreams. I cannot explain thepractical things of life. But still, we are aware, my friend, thatlove-gages may take strange shapes. By all means take anothercigarette. It is a pleasure to see anyone appreciate them so. A fan, aglove, glasses- who knows what article may be carried as a token ortreasured when a man puts an end to his life? This gentleman speaks offootsteps in the grass, but, after all, it is easy to be mistaken onsuch a point. As to the knife, it might well be thrown far from theunfortunate man as he fell. It is possible that I speak as a child,but to me it seems that Willoughby Smith has met his fate by his ownhand."

　　Holmes seemed struck by the theory thus put forward, and hecontinued to walk up and down for some time, lost in thought andconsuming cigarette after cigarette.

　　"Tell me, Professor Coram," he said, at last, "what is in thatcupboard in the bureau?"

　　"Nothing that would help a thief. Family papers, letters from mypoor wife, diplomas of universities which have done me honour. Here isthe key. You can look for yourself."

　　Holmes picked up the key, and looked at it for an instant, then hehanded it back.

　　"No, I hardly think that it would help me," said he. "I shouldprefer to go quietly down to your garden, and turn the whole matterover in my head. There is something to be said for the theory ofsuicide which you have put forward. We must apologize for havingintruded upon you, Professor Coram, and I promise that we won'tdisturb you until after lunch. At two o'clock we will come again,and report to you anything which may have happened in the interval."Holmes was curiously distrait, and we walked up and down thegarden path for some time in silence.

　　"Have you a clue?" I asked, at last.

　　"It depends upon those cigarettes that I smoked," said he. "It ispossible that I am utterly mistaken. The cigarettes will show me.""My dear Holmes," I exclaimed, "how on earth-"

　　"Well, well, you may see for yourself. If not, there's no harm done.Of course, we always have the optician clue to fall back upon, but Itake a short cut when I can get it. Ah, here is the good Mrs.Marker! Let us enjoy five minutes of instructive conversation withher."

　　I may have remarked before that Holmes had, when he liked, apeculiarly ingratiating way with women, and that he very readilyestablished terms of confidence with them. In half the time which hehad named, he had captured the housekeeper's goodwill and was chattingwith her as if he had known her for years.

　　"Yes, Mr. Holmes, it is as you say, sir. He does smoke somethingterrible. All day and sometimes all night, sir. I've seen that room ofa morning- well, sir, you'd have thought it was a London fog. Pooryoung Mr. Smith, he was a smoker also, but not as bad as theprofessor. His health- well, I don't know that it's better nor worsefor the smoking."

　　"Ah!" said Holmes, "but it kills the appetite."

　　"Well, I don't know about that, sir."

　　"I suppose the professor eats hardly anything?"

　　"Well, he is variable. I'll say that for him."

　　"I'll wager he took no breakfast this morning, and won't face hislunch after all the cigarettes I saw him consume."

　　"Well, you're out there, sir, as it happens, for he ate a remarkablebig breakfast this morning. I don't know when I've known him make abetter one, and he's ordered a good dish of cutlets for his lunch. I'msurprised myself, for since I came into that room yesterday and sawyoung Mr. Smith lying there on the floor, I couldn't bear to look atfood. Well, it takes all sorts to make a world, and the professorhasn't let it take his appetite away."

　　We loitered the morning away in the garden. Stanley Hopkins had gonedown to the village to look into some rumours of a strange woman whohad been seen by some children on the Chatham Road the previousmorning. As to my friend, all his usual energy seemed to have desertedhim. I had never known him handle a case in such a half-heartedfashion. Even the news brought back by Hopkins that he had found thechildren, and that they had undoubtedly seen a woman exactlycorresponding with Holmes's description, and wearing either spectaclesor eyeglasses, failed to rouse any sign of keen interest. He wasmore attentive when Susan, who waited upon us at lunch, volunteeredthe information that she believed Mr. Smith had been out for a walkyesterday morning, and that he had only returned half an hour beforethe tragedy occurred. I could not myself see the bearing of thisincident, but I clearly perceived that Holmes was weaving it intothe general scheme which he had formed in his brain. Suddenly hesprang from his chair and glanced at his watch. "Two o'clock,gentlemen," said he. "We must go up and have it out with our friend,the professor."

　　The old man had just finished his lunch, and certainly his emptydish bore evidence to the good appetite with which his housekeeper hadcredited him. He was, indeed, a weird figure as he turned his whitemane and his glowing eyes towards us. The eternal cigarette smoulderedin his mouth. He had been dressed and was seated in an armchair by thefire.

　　"Well, Mr. Holmes, have you solved this mystery yet?" He shovedthe large tin of cigarettes which stood on a table beside himtowards my companion. Holmes stretched out his hand at the samemoment, and between them they tipped the box over the edge. For aminute or two we were all on our knees retrieving stray cigarettesfrom impossible places. When we rose again, I observed Holmes's eyeswere shining and his cheeks tinged with colour. Only at a crisishave I seen those battle-signals flying.

　　"Yes," said he, "I have solved it."

　　Stanley Hopkins and I stared in amazement. Something like a sneerquivered over the gaunt features of the old professor.

　　"Indeed! In the garden?"

　　"No, here."

　　"Here! When?"

　　"This instant."

　　"You are surely joking, Mr. Sherlock Holmes. You compel me to tellyou that this is too serious a matter to be treated in such afashion."

　　"I have forged and tested every link of my chain, Professor Coram,and I am sure that it is sound. What your motives are, or what exactpart you play in this strange business, I am not yet able to say. In afew minutes I shall probably hear it from your own lips. Meanwhile Iwill reconstruct what is past for your benefit, so that you may knowthe information which I still require.

　　"A lady yesterday entered your study. She came with the intention ofpossessing herself of certain documents which were in your bureau. Shehad a key of her own. I have had an opportunity of examining yours,and I do not find that slight discolouration which the scratch madeupon the varnish would have produced. You were not an accessory,therefore, and she came, so far as I can read the evidence, withoutyour knowledge to rob you."

　　The professor blew a cloud from his lips. "This is mostinteresting and instructive," said he. "Have you no more to add?Surely, having traced this lady so far, you can also say what hasbecome of her."

　　"I will endeavour to do so. In the first place she was seized byyour secretary, and stabbed him in order to escape. This catastrophe Iam inclined to regard as an unhappy accident, for I am convincedthat the lady had no intention of inflicting so grievous an injury. Anassassin does not come unarmed. Horrified by what she had done, sherushed wildly away from the scene of the tragedy. Unfortunately forher, she had lost her glasses in the scuffle, and as she was extremelyshortsighted she was really helpless without them. She ran down acorridor, which she imagined to be that by which she had come- bothwere lined with cocoanut matting- and it was only when it was too latethat she understood that she had taken the wrong passage, and that herretreat was cut off behind her. What was she to do? She could not goback. She could not remain where she was. She must go on. She went on.She mounted a stair, pushed open a door, and found herself in yourroom."

　　The old man sat with his mouth open, staring wildly at Holmes.Amazement and fear were stamped upon his expressive features. Now,with an effort, he shrugged his shoulders and burst into insincerelaughter.

　　"All very fine, Mr. Holmes," said he. "But there is one littleflaw in your splendid theory. I was myself in my room, and I neverleft it during the day."

　　"I am aware of that, Professor Coram."

　　"And you mean to say that I could lie upon that bed and not be awarethat a woman had entered my room?"

　　"I never said so. You were aware of it. You spoke with her. Yourecognized her. You aided her to escape."

　　Again the professor burst into high-keyed laughter. He had risento his feet, and his eyes glowed like embers.

　　"You are mad!" he cried. "You are talking insanely. I helped herto escape? Where is she now?"

　　"She is there," said Holmes, and he pointed to a high bookcase inthe corner of the room.

　　I saw the old man throw up his arms, a terrible convulsion passedover his grim face, and he fell back in his chair. At the same instantthe bookcase at which Holmes pointed swung round upon a hinge, and awoman rushed out into the room. "You are right!" she cried, in astrange foreign voice. "You are right! I am here."

　　She was brown with the dust and draped with the cobwebs which hadcome from the walls of her hiding-place. Her face, too, was streakedwith grime, and at the best she could never have been handsome, forshe had the exact physical characteristics which Holmes had divined,with, in addition, a long and obstinate chin. What with her naturalblindness, and what with the change from dark to light, she stood asone dazed, blinking about her to see where and who we were. And yet,in spite of all these disadvantages, there was a certain nobility inthe woman's bearing- a gallantry in the defiant chin and in theupraised head, which compelled something of respect and admiration.Stanley Hopkins had laid his hand upon her arm and claimed her ashis prisoner, but she waved him aside gently, and yet with anover-mastering dignity which compelled obedience. The old man lay backin his chair with a twitching face, and stared at her with broodingeyes.

　　"Yes, sir, I am your prisoner," she said. "From where I stood Icould hear everything, and I know that you have learned the truth. Iconfess it all. It was I who killed the young man. But you areright- you who say it was an accident. I did not even know that it wasa knife which I held in my hand, for in my despair I snatched anythingfrom the table and struck at him to make him let me go. It is thetruth that I tell."

　　"Madam," said Holmes, "I am sure that it is the truth. I fear thatyou are far from well."

　　She had turned a dreadful colour, the more ghastly under the darkdust-streaks upon her face. She seated herself on the side of the bed;then she resumed.

　　"I have only a little time here," she said, "but I would have you toknow the whole truth. I am this man's wife. He is not an Englishman.He is a Russian. His name I will not tell."

　　For the first time the old man stirred. "God bless you, Anna!" hecried. "God bless you!"

　　She cast a look of the deepest disdain in his direction. "Why shouldyou cling so hard to that wretched life of yours, Sergius?" saidshe. "It has done harm to many and good to none- not even to yourself.However, it is not for me to cause the frail thread to be snappedbefore God's time. I have enough already upon my soul since Icrossed the threshold of this cursed house. But I must speak or Ishall be too late.

　　"I have said, gentlemen, that I am this man's wife. He was fifty andI a foolish girl of twenty when we married. It was in a city ofRussia, a university- I will not name the place."

　　"God bless you, Anna!" murmured the old man again.

　　"We were reformers- revolutionists- Nihilists, you understand. Heand I and many more. Then there came a time of trouble, a policeofficer was killed, many were arrested, evidence was wanted, and inorder to save his own life and to earn a great reward, my husbandbetrayed his own wife and his companions. Yes, we were all arrestedupon his confession. Some of us found our way to the gallows, and someto Siberia. I was among these last, but my term was not for life. Myhusband came to England with his ill-gotten gains and has lived inquiet ever since, knowing well that if the Brotherhood knew where hewas not a week would pass before justice would be done."The old man reached out a trembling hand and helped himself to acigarette. "I am in your hands, Anna," said he. "You were alwaysgood to me."

　　"I have not yet told you the height of his villainy," said she."Among our comrades of the Order, there was one who was the friendof my heart. He was noble, unselfish, loving- all that my husbandwas not. He hated violence. We were all guilty- if that is guilt-but he was not. He wrote forever dissuading us from such a course.These letters would have saved him. So would my diary, in which,from day to day, I had entered both my feelings towards him and theview which each of us had taken. My husband found and kept bothdiary and letters. He hid them, and he tried hard to swear away theyoung man's life. In this he failed, but Alexis was sent a convictto Siberia, where now, at this moment, he works in a salt mine.Think of that, you villain, you villain!- now, now, at this verymoment, Alexis, a man whose name you are not worthy to speak, worksand lives like a slave, and yet I have your life in my hands, and Ilet you go."

　　"You were always a noble woman, Anna," said the old man, puffingat his cigarette.

　　She had risen, but she fell back again with a little cry of pain."I must finish," she said. "When my term was over I set myself toget the diary and letters which, if sent to the Russian government,would procure my friend's release. I knew that my husband had cometo England. After months of searching I discovered where he was. Iknew that he still had the diary, for when I was in Siberia I had aletter from him once, reproaching me and quoting some passages fromits pages. Yet I was sure that, with his revengeful nature, he wouldnever give it to me of his own free-will. I must get it for myself.With this object I engaged an agent from a private detective firm, whoentered my husband's house as a secretary- it was your secondsecretary, Sergius, the one who left you so hurriedly. He found thatpapers were kept in the cupboard, and he got an impression of the key.He would not go farther. He furnished me with a plan of the house, andhe told me that in the forenoon the study was always empty, as thesecretary was employed up here. So at last I took my courage in bothhands, and I came down to get the papers for myself. I succeeded;but at what a cost!

　　"I had just taken the paper; and was locking the cupboard, whenthe young man seized me. I had seen him already that morning. He hadmet me on the road, and I had asked him to tell me where ProfessorCoram lived, not knowing that he was in his employ."

　　"Exactly! Exactly!" said Holmes. "The secretary came back, andtold his employer of the woman he had met. Then, in his last breath,he tried to send a message that it was she- the she whom he had justdiscussed with him."

　　"You must let me speak," said the woman, in an imperative voice, andher face contracted as if in pain. "When he had fallen I rushed fromthe room, chose the wrong door, and found myself in my husband's room.He spoke of giving me up. I showed him that if he did so, his life wasin my hands. If he gave me to the law, I could give him to theBrotherhood. It was not that I wished to live for my own sake, butit was that I desired to accomplish my purpose. He knew that I woulddo what I said- that his own fate was involved in mine. For thatreason, and for no other, he shielded me. He thrust me into thatdark hiding-place- a relic of old days, known only to himself. He tookhis meals in his own room, and so was able to give me part of hisfood. It was agreed that when the police left the house I shouldslip away by night and come back no more. But in some way you haveread our plans." She tore from the bosom of her dress a smallpacket. "These are my last words," said she; "here is the packet whichwill save Alexis. I confide it to your honour and to your love ofjustice. Take it! You will deliver it at the Russian Embassy. Now, Ihave done my duty, and-"

　　"Stop her!" cried Holmes. He had bounded across the room and hadwrenched a small phial from her hand.

　　"Too late!" she said, sinking back on the bed. "Too late! I took thepoison before I left my hiding-place. My head swims! I am going! Icharge you, sir, to remember the packet."

　　"A simple case, and yet, in some ways, an instructive one," Holmesremarked, as we travelled back to town. "It hinged from the outsetupon the pince-nez. But for the fortunate chance of the dying manhaving seized these, I am not sure that we could ever have reached oursolution. It was clear to me, from the strength of the glasses, thatthe wearer must have been very blind and helpless when deprived ofthem. When you asked me to believe that she walked along a narrowstrip of grass without once making a false step, I remarked, as youmay remember, that it was a noteworthy performance. In my mind I setit down as an impossible performance, save in the unlikely case thatshe had a second pair of glasses. I was forced, therefore, to considerseriously the hypothesis that she had remained within the house. Onperceiving the similarity of the two corridors, it became clear thatshe might very easily have made such a mistake, and, in that case,it was evident that she must have entered the professor's room. Iwas keenly on the alert, therefore, for whatever would bear out thissupposition, and I examined the room narrowly for anything in theshape of a hiding-place. The carpet seemed continuous and firmlynailed, so I dismissed the idea of a trap-door. There might well bea recess behind the books. As you are aware, such devices are commonin old libraries. I observed that books were piled on the floor at allother points, but that one bookcase was left clear. This, then,might be the door. I could see no marks to guide me, but the carpetwas of a dun colour, which lends itself very well to examination. Itherefore smoked a great number of those excellent cigarettes, and Idropped the ash all over the space in front of the suspected bookcase.It was a simple trick, but exceedingly effective. I then wentdownstairs, and I ascertained, in your presence, Watson, withoutyour perceiving the drift of my remarks, that Professor Coram'sconsumption of food had increased- as one would expect when he issupplying a second person. We then ascended to the room again, when,by upsetting the cigarette-box, I obtained a very excellent view ofthe floor, and was able to see quite clearly, from the traces upon thecigarette ash, that the prisoner had in our absence come out fromher retreat. Well, Hopkins, here we are at Charing Cross, and Icongratulate you on having brought your case to a successfulconclusion. You are going to headquarters, no doubt. I think,Watson, you and I will drive together to the Russian Embassy."-THE END-

　　.

　　1924

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE ILLUSTRIOUS CLIENT

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　"It can't hurt now," was Mr. Sherlock Holmes's comment when, for thetenth time in as many years, I asked his leave to reveal the followingnarrative. So it was that at last I obtained permission to put onrecord what was, in some ways, the supreme moment of my friend'scareer.

　　Both Holmes and I had a weakness for the Turkish bath. It was over asmoke in the pleasant lassitude of the drying-room that I have foundhim less reticent and more human than anywhere else. On the upperfloor of the Northumberland Avenue establishment there is anisolated corner where two couches lie side by side, and it was onthese that we lay upon September 3, 1902, the day when my narrativebegins. I had asked him whether anything was stirring, and foranswer he had shot his long, thin, nervous arm out of the sheets whichenveloped him and had drawn an envelope from the inside pocket ofthe coat which hung beside him.

　　"It may be some fussy, self-important fool; it may be a matter oflife or death," said he as he handed me the note. "I know no more thanthis message tells me."

　　It was from the Carlton Club and dated the evening before. This iswhat I read:

　　Sir James Damery presents his compliments to Mr. Sherlock Holmes andwill call upon him at 4:30 to-morrow. Sir James begs to say that thematter upon which he desires to consult Mr. Holmes is very delicateand also very important. He trusts, therefore, that Mr. Holmes willmake every effort to grant this interview, and that he will confirm itover the telephone to the Carlton Club.

　　"I need not say that I have confirmed it, Watson," said Holmes asI returned the paper. "Do you know anything of this man Damery?""Only that this name is a household word in society."

　　"Well, I can tell you a little more than that. He has rather areputation for arranging delicate matters which are to be kept outof the papers. You may remember his negotiations with Sir George Lewisover the Hammerford Will case. He is a man of the world with a naturalturn for diplomacy. I am bound, therefore, to hope that it is not afalse scent and that he has some real need for our assistance.""Our?"

　　"Well, if you will be so good, Watson."

　　"I shall be honoured."

　　"Then you have the hour- 4:30. Until then we can put the matterout of our heads."

　　I was living in my own rooms in Queen Anne Street at the time, but Iwas round at Baker Street before the time named. Sharp to thehalf-hour, Colonel Sir James Damery was announced. It is hardlynecessary to describe him, for many will remember that large, bluff,honest personality, that broad, clean-shaven face, and, above all,that pleasant, mellow voice. Frankness shone from his gray Irish eyes,and good humour played round his mobile, smiling lips. His lucenttop-hat, his dark frock-coat, indeed, every detail, from the pearl pinin the black satin cravat to the lavender spats over the varnishedshoes, spoke of the meticulous care in dress for which he wasfamous. The big, masterful aristocrat dominated the little room."Of course, I was prepared to find Dr. Watson," he remarked with acourteous bow. "His collaboration may be very necessary, for we aredealing on this occasion, Mr. Holmes, with a man to whom violence isfamiliar and who will, literally, stick at nothing. I should saythat there is no more dangerous man in Europe."

　　"I have had several opponents to whom that flattering term hasbeen applied," said Holmes with a smile. "Don't you smoke? Then youwill excuse me if I light my pipe. If your man is more dangerousthan the late Professor Moriarty, or than the living Colonel SebastianMoran, then he is indeed worth meeting. May I ask his name?""Have you ever heard of Baron Gruner?"

　　"You mean the Austrian murderer?"

　　Colonel Damery threw up his kid-gloved hands with a laugh. "There isno getting past you, Mr. Holmes! Wonderful! So you have alreadysized him up as a murderer?"

　　"It is my business to follow the details of Continental crime. Whocould possibly have read what happened at Prague and have any doubtsas to the man's guilt! It was a purely technical legal point and thesuspicious death of a witness that saved him! I am sure that he killedhis wife when the so-called 'accident' happened in the Splugen Pass asif I had seen him do it. I knew, also, that he had come to England andhad a presentiment that sooner or later he would find me some workto do. Well, what has Baron Gruner been up to? I presume it is notthis old tragedy which has come up again?"

　　"No, it is more serious than that. To revenge crime is important,but to prevent it is more so. It is a terrible thing, Mr. Holmes, tosee a dreadful event, an atrocious situation, preparing itselfbefore your eyes, to clearly understand whither it will lead and yetto be utterly unable to avert it. Can a human being be placed in amore trying position?"

　　"Perhaps not."

　　"Then you will sympathize with the client in whose interests I amacting."

　　"I did not understand that you were merely an intermediary. Who isthe principal?"

　　"Mr. Holmes, I must beg you not to press that question. It isimportant that I should be able to assure him that his honoured namehas been in no way dragged into the matter. His motives are, to thelast degree, honourable and chivalrous, but he prefers to remainunknown. I need not say that your fees will be assured and that youwill be given a perfectly free hand. Surely the actual name of yourclient is immaterial?"

　　"I am sorry," said Holmes. "I am accustomed to have mystery at oneend of my cases, but to have it at both ends is too confusing. I fear,Sir James, that I must decline to act."

　　Our visitor was greatly disturbed. His large, sensitive face wasdarkened with emotion and disappointment.

　　"You hardly realize the effect of your own action, Mr. Holmes," saidhe. "You place me in a most serious dilemma, for I am perfectlycertain that you would be proud to take over the case if I couldgive you the facts, and yet a promise forbids me from revealing themall. May I, at least, lay all that I can before you?"

　　"By all means, so long as it is understood that I commit myself tonothing."

　　"That is understood. In the first place, you have no doubt heardof General de Merville?"

　　"De Merville of Khyber fame? Yes, I have heard of him.""He has a daughter, Violet de Merville, young, rich, beautiful,accomplished, a wonder-woman in every way. It is this daughter, thislovely, innocent girl, whom we are endeavouring to save from theclutches of a fiend."

　　"Baron Gruner has some hold over her, then?"

　　"The strongest of all holds where a woman is concerned- the holdof love. The fellow is, as you may have heard, extraordinarilyhandsome, with a most fascinating manner, a gentle voice, and that airof romance and mystery which means so much to a woman. He is said tohave the whole sex at his mercy and to have made ample use of thefact."

　　"But how came such a man to meet a lady of the standing of MissViolet de Merville?"

　　"It was on a Mediterranean yachting voyage. The company, thoughselect, paid their own passages. No doubt the promoters hardlyrealized the Baron's true character until it was too late. The villainattached himself to the lady, and with such effect that he hascompletely and absolutely won her heart. To say that she loves himhardly expresses it. She dotes upon him; she is obsessed by him.Outside of him there is nothing on earth. She will not hear one wordagainst him. Everything has been done to cure her of her madness,but in vain. To sum up, she proposes to marry him next month. As sheis of age and has a will of iron, it is hard to know how to preventher."

　　"Does she know about the Austrian episode?"

　　"The cunning devil has told her every unsavoury public scandal ofhis past life, but always in such a way as to make himself out to bean innocent martyr. She absolutely accepts his version and will listento no other."

　　"Dear me! But surely you have inadvertently let out the name of yourclient? It is no doubt General de Merville."

　　Our visitor fidgeted in his chair.

　　"I could deceive you by saying so, Mr. Holmes, but it would not betrue. De Merville is a broken man. The strong soldier has been utterlydemoralized by this incident. He has lost the nerve which never failedhim on the battlefield and has become a weak, doddering old man,utterly incapable of contending with a brilliant, forceful rascal likethis Austrian. My client, however, is an old friend, one who has knownthe General intimately for many years and taken a paternal interest inthis young girl since she wore short frocks. He cannot see thistragedy consummated without some attempt to stop it. There isnothing in which Scotland Yard can act. It was his own suggestion thatyou should be called in, but it was, as I have said, on the expressstipulation that he should not be personally involved in the matter. Ihave no doubt, Mr. Holmes, with your great powers you could easilytrace my client back through me, but I must ask you, as a point ofhonour, to refrain from doing so, and not to break in upon hisincognito."

　　Holmes gave a whimsical smile.

　　"I think I may safely promise that," said he. "I may add that yourproblem interests me, and that I shall be prepared to look into it.How shall I keep in touch with you?"

　　"The Carlton Club will find me. But in case of emergency, there is aprivate telephone call, 'XX.31.'"

　　Holmes noted it down and sat, still smiling, with the openmemorandum-book upon his knee.

　　"The Baron's present address, please?"

　　"Vernon Lodge, near Kingston. It is a large house. He has beenfortunate in some rather shady speculations and is a rich man, whichnaturally makes him a more dangerous antagonist."

　　"Is he at home at present?"

　　"Yes."

　　"Apart from what you have told me, can you give me any furtherinformation about the man?"

　　"He has expensive tastes. He is a horse fancier. For a short time heplayed polo at Hurlingham, but then this Prague affair got noisedabout and he had to leave. He collects books and pictures. He is a manwith a considerable artistic side to his Nature. He is, I believe, arecognized authority upon Chinese pottery and has written a bookupon the subject."

　　"A complex mind," said Holmes. "All great criminals have that. Myold friend Charlie Peace was a violin virtuoso. Wainwright was no meanartist. I could quote many more. Well, Sir James, you will inform yourclient that I am turning my mind upon Baron Gruner. I can say no more.I have some sources of information of my own, and I dare say we mayfind some means of opening the matter up."

　　When our visitor had left us Holmes sat so long in deep thought thatit seemed to me that he had forgotten my presence. At last, however,he came briskly back to earth.

　　"Well, Watson, any views?" he asked.

　　"I should think you had better see the young lady herself.""My dear Watson, if her poor old broken father cannot move her,how shall I, a stranger, prevail? And yet there is something in thesuggestion if all else fails. But I think we must begin from adifferent angle. I rather fancy that Shinwell Johnson might be ahelp."

　　I have not had occasion to mention Shinwell Johnson in these memoirsbecause I have seldom drawn my cases from the latter phases of myfriend's career. During the first years of the century he became avaluable assistant. Johnson, I grieve to say, made his name first as avery dangerous villain and served two terms at Parkhurst. Finally herepented and allied himself to Holmes, acting as his agent in the hugecriminal under-world of London and obtaining information which oftenproved to be of vital importance. Had Johnson been a "nark" of thepolice he would soon have been exposed, but as he dealt with caseswhich never came directly into the courts, his activities were neverrealized by his companions. With the glamour of his two convictionsupon him, he had the entree of every nightclub, doss house, andgambling-den in the town, and his quick observation and active brainmade him an ideal agent for gaining information. It was to him thatSherlock Holmes now proposed to turn.

　　It was not possible for me to follow the immediate steps taken by myfriend, for I had some pressing professional business of my own, but Imet him by appointment that evening at Simpson's, where, sitting ata small table in the front window and looking down at the rushingstream of life in the Strand, he told me something of what had passed."Johnson is on the prowl," said he. "He may pick up some garbagein the darker recesses of the underworld, for it is down there, amidthe black roots of crime, that we must hunt for this man's secrets.""But if the lady will not accept what is already known, why shouldany fresh discovery of yours turn her from her purpose?""Who knows, Watson? Woman's heart and mind are insoluble puzzlesto the male. Murder might be condoned or explained, and yet somesmaller offence might rankle. Baron Gruner remarked to me-""He remarked to you!"

　　"Oh, to be sure, I had not told you of my plans. Well, Watson, Ilove to come to close grips with my man. I like to meet him eye to eyeand read for myself the stuff that he is made of. When I had givenJohnson his instructions I took a cab out to Kingston and found theBaron in a most affable mood."

　　"Did he recognize you?"

　　"There was no difficulty about that, for I simply sent in my card.He is an excellent antagonist, cool as ice, silky voiced andsoothing as one of your fashionable consultants, and poisonous as acobra. He has breeding in him- a real aristocrat of crime, with asuperficial suggestion of afternoon tea and all the cruelty of thegrave behind it. Yes, I am glad to have had my attention called toBaron Adelbert Gruner."

　　"You say he was affable?"

　　"A purring cat who thinks he sees prospective mice. Some people'saffability is more deadly than the violence of coarser souls. Hisgreeting was characteristic. 'I rather thought I should see you sooneror later, Mr. Holmes,' said he. 'You have been engaged, no doubt byGeneral de Merville, to endeavour to stop my marriage with hisdaughter, Violet. That is so, is it not?'

　　"I acquiesced.

　　"'My dear man,' said he, 'you will only ruin your own

　　well-deserved reputation. It is not a case in which you can possiblysucceed. You will have barren work, to say nothing of incurring somedanger. Let me very strongly advise you to draw off at once.'"'It is curious,' I answered, 'but that was the very advice whichI had intended to give you. I have a respect for your brains, Baron,and the little which I have seen of your personality has notlessened it. Let me put it to you as man to man. No one wants torake up your past and make you unduly uncomfortable. It is over, andyou are now in smooth waters, but if you persist in this marriageyou will raise up a swarm of powerful enemies who will never leave youalone until they have made England too hot to hold you. Is the gameworth it? Surely you would be wiser if you left the lady alone. Itwould not be pleasant for you if these facts of your past were broughtto her notice.'

　　"The Baron has little waxed tips of hair under his nose, like theshort antennae of an insect. These quivered with amusement as helistened, and he finally broke into a gentle chuckle.

　　"'Excuse my amusement, Mr. Holmes,' said he, 'but it is really funnyto see you trying to play a hand with no cards in it. I don't thinkanyone could do it better, but it is rather pathetic, all the same.Not a colour card there, Mr. Holmes, nothing but the smallest of thesmall.'

　　"'So you think.'

　　"'So I know. Let me make the thing clear to you, for my own handis so strong that I can afford to show it. I have been fortunateenough to win the entire affection of this lady. This was given tome in spite of the fact that I told her very clearly of all theunhappy incidents in my past life. I also told her that certain wickedand designing persons- I hope you recognize yourself- would come toher and tell her these things, and I warned her how to treat them. Youhave heard of post-hypnotic suggestion, Mr. Holmes? Well, you will seehow it works, for a man of personality can use hypnotism without anyvulgar passes or tomfoolery. So she is ready for you and, I have nodoubt, would give you an appointment, for she is quite amenable to herfather's will- save only in the one little matter.'

　　"Well, Watson, there seemed to be no more to say, so I took my leavewith as much cold dignity as I could summon, but, as I had my handon the door-handle, he stopped me.

　　"'By the way, Mr. Holmes,' said he, 'did you know Le Brun, theFrench agent?'

　　"'Yes,' said I.

　　"'Do you know what befell him?'

　　"'I heard that he was beaten by some Apaches in the Montmartredistrict and crippled for life.'

　　"'Quite true, Mr. Holmes. By a curious coincidence he had beeninquiring into my affairs only a week before. Don't do it, Mr. Holmes;it's not a lucky thing to do. Several have found that out. My lastword to you is, go your own way and let me go mine. Good-bye!'"So there you are, Watson. You are up to date now."

　　"The fellow seems dangerous."

　　"Mighty dangerous. I disregard the blusterer, but this is the sortof man who says rather less than he means."

　　"Must you interfere? Does it really matter if he marries the girl?""Considering that he undoubtedly murdered his last wife, I shouldsay it mattered very much. Besides, the client! Well, we need notdiscuss that. When you have finished your coffee you had best comehome with me, for the blithe Shinwell will be there with his report."We found him sure enough, a huge, coarse, red-faced, scorbuticman, with a pair of vivid black eyes which were the only external signof the very cunning mind within. It seems that he had dived downinto what was peculiarly his kingdom, and beside him on the settee wasa brand which he had brought up in the shape of a slim, flame-likeyoung, woman with a pale, intense face, youthful, and yet so worn withsin and sorrow that one read the terrible years which had left theirleprous mark upon her.

　　"This is Miss Kitty Winter," said Shinwell Johnson, waving his fathand as an introduction. "What she don't know- well, there, she'llspeak for herself. Put my hand right on her, Mr. Holmes, within anhour of your message."

　　"I'm easy to find," said the young woman. "Hell, London, gets meevery time. Same address for Porky Shinwell. We're old mates, Porky,you and I. But, by cripes! there is another who ought to be down ina lower hell than we if there was any justice in the world! That isthe man you are after, Mr. Holmes."

　　Holmes smiled. "I gather we have your good wishes, Miss Winter.""If I can help to put him where he belongs, I'm yours to therattle," said our visitor with fierce energy. There was an intensityof hatred in her white, set face and her blazing eyes such as womanseldom and man never can attain. "You needn't go into my past, Mr.Holmes. That's neither here nor there. But what I am Adelbert Grunermade me. If I could pull him down!" She clutched frantically withher hands into the air. "Oh, if I could only pull him into the pitwhere he has pushed so many!"

　　"You know how the matter stands?"

　　"Porky Shinwell has been telling me. He's after some other poor fooland wants to marry her this time. You want to stop it. Well, yousurely know enough about this devil to prevent any decent girl inher senses wanting to be in the same parish with him."

　　"She is not in her senses. She is madly in love. She has been toldall about him. She cares nothing."

　　"Told about the murder?"

　　"Yes."

　　"My Lord, she must have a nerve!"

　　"She puts them all down as slanders."

　　"Couldn't you lay proofs before her silly eyes?"

　　"Well, can you help us do so?"

　　"Ain't I a proof myself? If I stood before her and told her how heused me-"

　　"Would you do this?"

　　"Would I? Would I not!"

　　"Well, it might be worth trying. But he has told her most of hissins and had pardon from her, and I understand she will not reopen thequestion."

　　"I'll lay he didn't tell her all" said Miss Winter. "I caught aglimpse of one or two murders besides the one that made such a fuss.He would speak of someone in his velvet way and then look at me with asteady eye and say: 'He died within a month.' It wasn't hot air,either. But I took little notice- you see, I loved him myself atthat time. Whatever he did went with me, same as with this poorfool! There was just one thing that shook me. Yes, by cripes! if ithad not been for his poisonous, lying, tongue that explains andsoothes, I'd have left him that very night. It's a book he has- abrown leather book with a lock, and his arms in gold on the outside. Ithink he was a bit drunk that night, or he would not have shown itto me."

　　"What was it, then?"

　　"I tell you, Mr. Holmes, this man collects women, and takes apride in his collection, as some men collect moths or butterflies.He had it all in that book. Snapshot photographs, names, details,everything about them. It was a beastly book- a book no man, even ifhe had come from the gutter, could have put together. But it wasAdelbert Gruner's book all the same. 'Souls I have ruined.' He couldhave put that on the outside if he had been so minded. However, that'sneither here nor there, for the book would not serve you, and, if itwould, you can't get it."

　　"Where is it?"

　　"How can I tell you where it is now? It's more than a year since Ileft him. I know where he kept it then. He's a precise, tidy cat ofa man in many of his ways, so maybe it is still in the pigeon-holeof the old bureau in the inner study. Do you know his house?""I've been in the study," said Holmes.

　　"Have you, though? You haven't been slow on the job if you onlystarted this morning. Maybe dear Adelbert has met his match this time.The outer study is the one with the Chinese crockery in it- bigglass cupboard between the windows. Then behind his desk is the doorthat leads to the inner study- a small room where he keeps pipersand things."

　　"Is he not afraid of burglars?"

　　"Adelbert is no coward. His worst enemy couldn't say that of him. Hecan look after himself. There's a burglar alarm at night. Besides,what is there for a burglar- unless they got away with all thisfancy crockery?"

　　"No good," said Shinwell Johnson with the decided voice of theexpert. "No fence wants stuff of that sort that you can neither meltnor sell."

　　"Quite so," said Holmes. "Well, now, Miss Winter, if you wouldcall here to-morrow evening at five, I would consider in the meanwhilewhether your suggestion of seeing this lady personally may not bearranged. I am exceedingly obliged to you for your cooperation. I neednot say that my clients will consider liberally-"

　　"None of that, Mr. Holmes," cried the young woman. "I am not out formoney. Let me see this man in the mud, and I've got all I've workedfor- in the mud with my foot on his cursed face. That's my price.I'm with you to-morrow or any other day so long as you are on histrack. Porky here can tell you always where to find me."I did not see Holmes again until the following evening when we dinedonce more at our Strand restaurant. He shrugged his shoulders when Iasked him what luck he had had in his interview. Then he told thestory, which I would repeat in this way. His hard, dry statement needssome little editing to soften it into the terms of real life."There was no difficulty at all about the appointment," said Holmes,"for the girl glories in showing abject filial obedience in allsecondary things in an attempt to atone for her flagrant breach ofit in her engagement. The General 'phoned that all was ready, andthe fiery Miss W. turned up according to schedule, so that athalf-past five a cab deposited us outside 104 Berkeley Square, wherethe old soldier resides- one of those awful gray London castleswhich would make a church seem frivolous. A footman showed us in toa great yellow-curtained drawing-room, and there was the lady awaitingus, demure, pale, self-contained, as inflexible and remote as a snowimage on a mountain.

　　"I don't quite know how to make her clear to you, Watson. Perhapsyou may meet her before we are through, and you can use your owngift of words. She is beautiful, but with the ethereal other-worldbeauty of some fanatic whose thoughts are set on high. I have seensuch faces in the pictures of the old masters of the Middle Ages.How a beastman could have laid his vile paws upon such a being ofthe beyond I cannot imagine. You may have noticed how extremes call toeach other, the spiritual to the animal, the cave-man to the angel.You never saw a worse case than this.

　　"She knew what we had come for, of course- that villain had lostno time in poisoning her mind against us. Miss Winter's adventrather amazed her, I think, but she waved us into our respectivechairs like a reverend abbess receiving two rather leprous mendicants.If your head is inclined to swell, my dear Watson, take a course ofMiss Violet de Merville.

　　"'Well, sir,' said she in a voice like the wind from an iceberg,'your name is familiar to me. You have called, as I understand, tomalign my fiance, Baron Gruner. It is only by my father's request thatI see you at all, and I warn you in advance that anything you cansay could not possibly have the slightest effect upon my mind.'"I was sorry for her, Watson. I thought of her for the moment as Iwould have thought of a daughter of my own. I am not often eloquent. Iuse my head, not my heart. But I really did plead with her with allthe warmth of words that I could find in my nature. I pictured toher the awful position of the woman who only wakes to a man'scharacter after she is his wife- a woman who has to submit to becaressed by bloody hands and lecherous lips. I spared her nothing- theshame, the fear, the agony, the hopelessness of it all. All my hotwords could not bring one tinge of colour to those ivory cheeks or onegleam of emotion to those abstracted eyes. I thought of what therascal had said about a post-hypnotic influence. One could reallybelieve that she was living above the earth in some ecstatic dream.Yet there was nothing indefinite in her replies.

　　"'I have listened to you with patience, Mr. Holmes,' said she.'The effect upon my mind is exactly as predicted. I am aware thatAdelbert, that my fiance, has had a stormy life in which he hasincurred bitter hatreds and most unjust aspersions. You are only thelast of a series who have brought their slanders before me. Possiblyyou mean well, though I learn that you are a paid agent who would havebeen equally willing to act for the Baron as against him. But in anycase I wish you to understand once for all that I love him and that heloves me, and that the opinion of all the world is no more to methan the twitter of those birds outside the window. If his noblenature has ever for an instant fallen, it may be that I have beenspecially sent to raise it to its true and lofty level. I am notclear'- here she turned eyes upon my companion-' who this young ladymay be.'

　　"I was about to answer when the girl broke in like a whirlwind. Ifever you saw flame and ice face to face, it was those two women."'I'll tell you who I am,' she cried, springing out of her chair,her mouth all twisted with passion- 'I am his last mistress. I amone of a hundred that he has tempted and used and ruined and throwninto the refuse heap, as he will you also. Your refuse heap is morelikely to be a grave, and maybe that's the best. I tell you, youfoolish woman, if you marry this man he'll be the death of you. It maybe a broken heart or it may be a broken neck, but he'll have you oneway or the other. It's not out of love for you I'm speaking. I don'tcare a tinker's curse whether you live or die. It's out of hate forhim and to spite him and to get back on him for what he did to me. Butit's all the same, and you needn't look at me like that, my fine lady,for you may be lower than I am before you are through with it.'"'I should prefer not to discuss such matters,' said Miss deMerville coldly. 'Let me say once for all that I am aware of threepassages in my fiance's life in which he became entangled withdesigning women, and that I am assured of his hearty repentance forany evil that he may have done.'

　　"'Three passages!' screamed my companion. 'You fool! You unutterablefool!'

　　"'Mr. Holmes, I beg that you will bring this interview to an end,'said the icy voice. 'I have obeyed my father's wish in seeing you, butI am not compelled to listen to the ravings of this person.'"With an oath Miss Winter darted forward, and if I had not caughther wrist she would have clutched this maddening woman by the hair.I dragged her towards the door and was lucky to get her back intothe cab without a public scene, for she was beside herself withrage. In a cold way I felt pretty furious myself, Watson, for therewas something indescribably annoying in the calm aloofness and supremeself-complaisance of the woman whom we were trying to save. So nowonce again you know exactly how we stand, and it is clear that Imust plan some fresh opening move, for this gambit won't work. I'llkeep in touch with you, Watson, for it is more than likely that youwill have your part to play, though it is just possible that thenext move may lie with them rather than with us."

　　And it did. Their blow fell- or his blow rather, for never could Ibelieve that the lady was privy to it. I think I could show you thevery paving-stone upon which I stood when my eyes fell upon theplacard, and a pang of horror passed through my very soul. It wasbetween the Grand Hotel and Charing Cross Station, where aone-legged news-vender displayed his evening papers. The date was justtwo days after the last conversation. There, black upon yellow, wasthe terrible news-sheet:

　　MURDEROUS ATTACK UPON SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　I think I stood stunned for some moments. Then I have a confusedrecollection of snatching at a paper, of the remonstrance of theman, whom I had not paid, and, finally, of standing in the doorwayof a chemist's shop while I turned up the fateful paragraph. Thiswas how it ran:

　　We learn with regret that Mr. Sherlock Holmes, the well-knownprivate detective, was the victim this morning of a murderousassault which has left him in a precarious position. There are noexact details to hand, but the event seems to have occurred abouttwelve o'clock in Regent Street, outside the Cafe Royal. The attackwas made by two men armed with sticks, and Mr. Holmes was beaten aboutthe head and body, receiving injuries which the doctors describe asmost serious. He was carried to Charing Cross Hospital andafterwards insisted upon being taken to his rooms in Baker Street. Themiscreants who attacked him appear to have been respectably dressedmen, who escaped from the bystanders by passing through the Cafe Royaland out into Glasshouse Street behind it. No doubt they belonged tothat criminal fraternity which has so often had occasion to bewail theactivity and ingenuity of the injured man.

　　I need not say that my eyes had hardly glanced over the paragraphbefore I had sprung into a hansom and was on my way to Baker Street. Ifound Sir Leslie Oakshott, the famous surgeon, in the hall and hisbrougham waiting at the curb.

　　"No immediate danger," was his report. "Two lacerated scalp woundsand some considerable bruises. Several stitches have been necessary.Morphine has been injected and quiet is essential, but an interview ofa few minutes would not be absolutely forbidden."

　　With this permission I stole into the darkened room. The suffererwas wide awake, and I heard my name in a hoarse whisper. The blind wasthree-quarters down, but one ray of sunlight slanted through andstruck the bandaged head of the injured man. A crimson patch hadsoaked through the white linen compress. I sat beside him and bentmy head.

　　"All right Watson. Don't look so scared," he muttered in a very weakvoice. "It's not as bad as it seems."

　　"Thank God for that!"

　　"I'm a bit of a single-stick expert, as you know. I took most ofthem on my guard. It was the second man that was too much for me.""What can I do, Holmes? Of course, it was that damned fellow who setthem on. I'll go and thrash the hide off him if you give the word.""Good old Watson! No, we can do nothing there unless the policelay their hands on the men. But their get-away had been well prepared.We may be sure of that. Wait a little. I have my plans. The firstthing is to exaggerate my injuries. They'll come to you for news.Put it on thick, Watson. Lucky if I live the week out- concussion-delirium- what you like! You can't overdo it."

　　"But Sir Leslie Oakshott?"

　　"Oh, he's all right. He shall see the worst side of me. I'll lookafter that."

　　"Anything else?"

　　"Yes. Tell Shinwell Johnson to get that girl out of the way. Thosebeauties will be after her now. They know, of course, that she waswith me in the case. If they dared to do me in it is not likely theywill neglect her. That is urgent. Do it to-night."

　　"I'll go now. Anything more?"

　　"Put my pipe on the table- and the tobacco-slipper. Right! Come ineach morning and we will plan our campaign."

　　I arranged with Johnson that evening to take Miss Winter to aquiet suburb and see that she lay low until the danger was past.For six days the public were under the impression that Holmes was atthe door of death. The bulletins were very grave and there weresinister paragraphs in the papers. My continual visits assured me thatit was not so bad as that. His wiry constitution and his determinedwill were working wonders. He was recovering fast, and I hadsuspicions at times that he was really finding himself faster thanhe pretended even to me. There was a curious secretive streak in theman which led to many dramatic effects, but left even his closestfriends guessing as to what his exact plans might be. He pushed toan extreme the axiom that the only safe plotter was he who plottedalone. I was nearer him than anyone else, and yet I was alwaysconscious of the gap between.

　　On the seventh day the stitches were taken out, in spite of whichthere was a report of erysipelas in the evening papers. The sameevening papers had an announcement which I was bound, sick or well, tocarry to my friend. It was simply that among the passengers on theCunard boat Ruritania, starting from Liverpool on Friday, was theBaron Adelbert Gruner, who had some important financial business tosettle in the States before his impending wedding to Miss Violet deMerville, only daughter of, etc., etc. Holmes listened to the newswith a cold, concentrated look upon his pale face, which told methat it hit him hard.

　　"Friday!" he cried. "Only three clear days. I believe the rascalwants to put himself out of danger's way. But he won't, Watson! By theLord Harry, he won't! Now, Watson, I want you to do something for me.""I am here to be used, Holmes."

　　"Well, then, spend the next twenty-four hours in an intensivestudy of Chinese pottery."

　　He gave no explanations and I asked for none. By long experience Ihad learned the wisdom of obedience. But when I had left his room Iwalked down Baker Street, revolving in my head how on earth I was tocarry out so strange an order. Finally I drove to the London Libraryin St. James's Square, put the matter to my friend Lomax, thesublibrarian, and departed to my rooms with a goodly volume under myarm.

　　It is said that the barrister who crams up a case with such carethat he can examine an expert witness upon the Monday has forgottenall his forced knowledge before the Saturday. Certainly I should notlike now to pose as an authority upon ceramics. And yet all thatevening, and all that night with a short interval for rest, and allnext morning, I was sucking in knowledge and committing names tomemory. There I learned of the hall-marks of the great

　　artist-decorators, of the mystery of cyclical dates, the marks ofthe Hung-wu and the beauties of the Yung-lo, the writings ofTang-ying, and the glories of the primitive period of the Sung and theYuan. I was charged with all this information when I called uponHolmes next evening. He was out of bed now, though you would nothave guessed it from the published reports, and he sat with hismuch-bandaged head resting upon his hand in the depth of his favouritearmchair.

　　"Why, Holmes," I said, "if one believed the papers, you are dying.""That," said he, "is the very impression which I intended to convey.And now, Watson, have you learned your lessons?"

　　"At least I have tried to."

　　"Good. You could keep up an intelligent conversation on thesubject?"

　　"I believe I could."

　　"Then hand me that little box from the mantlepiece."

　　He opened the lid and took out a small object most carefully wrappedin some fine Eastern silk. This he unfolded, and disclosed adelicate little saucer of the most beautiful deep-blue colour."It needs careful handling, Watson. This is the real egg-shellpottery of the Ming dynasty. No finer piece ever passed throughChristie's. A complete set of this would be worth a king's ransom-in fact, it is doubtful if there is a complete set outside theimperial palace of Peking. The sight of this would drive a realconnoisseur wild."

　　"What am I to do with it?"

　　Holmes handed me a card upon which was printed: "Dr. Hill Barton,369 Half Moon Street."

　　"That is your name for the evening, Watson. You will call upon BaronGruner. I know something of his habits, and at half-past eight hewould probably be disengaged. A note will tell him in advance that youare about to call, and you will say that you are bringing him aspecimen of an absolutely unique set of Ming china. You may as well bea medical man, since that is a part which you can play withoutduplicity. You are a collector, this set has come your way, you haveheard of the Baron's interest in the subject, and you are not averseto selling at a price."

　　"What price?"

　　"Well asked, Watson. You would certainly fall down badly if youdid not know the value of your own wares. This saucer was got for meby Sir James, and comes, I understand, from the collection of hisclient. You will not exaggerate if you say that it could hardly bematched in the world."

　　"I could perhaps suggest that the set should be valued by anexpert."

　　"Excellent, Watson! You scintillate to-day. Suggest Christie orSotheby. Your delicacy prevents your putting a price for yourself.""But if he won't see me?"

　　"Oh, yes, he will see you. He has the collection mania in its mostacute form- and especially on this subject, on which he is anacknowledged authority. Sit down, Watson, and I will dictate theletter. No answer needed. You will merely say that you are coming, andwhy."

　　It was an admirable document, short, courteous, and stimulating tothe curiosity of the connoisseur. A district messenger was dulydispatched with it. On the same evening, with the precious saucer inmy hand and the card of Dr. Hill Barton in my pocket, I set off onmy own adventure.

　　The beautiful house and grounds indicated that Baron Gruner was,as Sir James had said, a man of considerable wealth. A long windingdrive, with banks of rare shrubs on either side, opened out into agreat gravelled square adorned with statues. The place had beenbuilt by a South African gold king in the days of the great boom,and the long, low house with the turrets at the corners, though anarchitectural nightmare, was imposing in its size and solidity. Abutler, who would have adorned a bench of bishops, showed me in andhanded me over to a plushclad footman, who ushered me into the Baron'spresence.

　　He was standing at the open front of a great case which stoodbetween the windows and which contained part of his Chinesecollection. He turned as I entered with a small brown vase in hishand.

　　"Pray sit down, Doctor," said he. "I was looking over my owntreasures and wondering whether I could really afford to add tothem. This little Tang specimen, which dates from the seventh century,would probably interest you. I am sure you never saw finer workmanshipor a richer glaze. Have you the Ming saucer with you of which youspoke?"

　　I carefully unpacked it and handed it to him. He seated himself athis desk, pulled over the lamp, for it was growing dark, and sethimself to examine it. As he did so the yellow light beat upon his ownfeatures, and I was able to study them at my ease.

　　He was certainly a remarkably handsome man. His Europeanreputation for beauty was fully deserved. In figure he was not morethan of middle size, but was built upon graceful and active lines. Hisface was swarthy, almost Oriental, with large, dark, languorous eyeswhich might easily hold an irresistible fascination for women. Hishair and moustache were raven black, the latter short, pointed, andcarefully waxed. His features were regular and pleasing, save only hisstraight, thin-lipped mouth. If ever I saw a murderer's mouth it wasthere- a cruel, hard gash in the face, compressed, inexorable, andterrible. He was ill-advised to train his moustache away from it,for it was Nature's danger-signal, set as a warning to his victims.His voice was engaging and his manners perfect. In age I should haveput him at little over thirty, though his record afterwards showedthat he was forty-two.

　　"Very fine- very fine indeed!" he said at last. "And you say youhave a set of six to correspond. What puzzles me is that I shouldnot have heard of such magnificent specimens. I only know of one inEngland to match this, and it is certainly not likely to be in themarket. Would it be indiscreet if I were to ask you, Dr. HillBarton, how you obtained this?"

　　"Does it really matter?" I asked with as careless an air as Icould muster. "You can see that the piece is genuine, and, as to thevalue, I am content to take an expert's valuation."

　　"Very mysterious," said he with a quick, suspicious flash of hisdark eyes. "In dealing with objects of such value, one naturallywishes to know all about the transaction. That the piece is genuine iscertain. I have no doubts at all about that. But suppose- I am boundto take every possibility into account- that it should proveafterwards that you had no right to sell?"

　　"I would guarantee you against any claim of the sort."

　　"That, of course, would open up the question as to what yourguarantee was worth."

　　"My bankers would answer that."

　　"Quite so. And yet the whole transaction strikes me as ratherunusual."

　　"You can do business or not," said I with indifference. "I havegiven you the first offer as I understood that you were a connoisseur,but I shall have no difficulty in other quarters."

　　"Who told you I was a connoisseur?"

　　"I was aware that you had written a book upon the subject.""Have you read the book?"

　　"No."

　　"Dear me, this becomes more and more difficult for me to understand!You are a connoisseur and collector with a very valuable piece in yourcollection, and yet you have never troubled to consult the one bookwhich would have told you of the real meaning and value of what youheld. How do you explain that?"

　　"I am a very busy man. I am a doctor in practice."

　　"That is no answer. If a man has a hobby he follows it up,whatever his other pursuits may be. You said in your note that youwere a connoisseur."

　　"So I am."

　　"Might I ask you a few questions to test you? I am obliged to tellyou, Doctor- if you are indeed a doctor- that the incident becomesmore and more suspicious. I would ask you what do you know of theEmperor Shomu and how do you associate him with the Shoso-in nearNara? Dear me, does that puzzle you? Tell me a little about theNorthern Wei dynasty and its place in the history of ceramic!"I sprang from my chair in simulated anger.

　　"This is intolerable, sir," said I. "I came here to do you a favour-and not to be examined as if I were a schoolboy. My knowledge on thesesubjects may be second only to your own, but I certainly shall notanswer questions which have been put in, so offensive a way."He looked at me steadily. The languor had gone from his eyes. Theysuddenly glared. There was a gleam of teeth from between those cruellips.

　　"What is the game? You are here as a spy. You are an emissary ofHolmes. This is a trick that you are playing upon me. The fellow isdying I hear, so he sends his tools to keep watch upon me. You've madeyour way in here without leave, and, by God, you may find it harder toget out than to get in."

　　He had sprung to his feet, and I stepped back, bracing myself for anattack, for the man was beside himself with rage. He may havesuspected me from the first; certainly this cross-examination hadshown him the truth; but it was clear that I could not hope to deceivehim. He dived his hand into a side-drawer and rummaged furiously. Thensomething struck upon his ear, for he stood listening intently."Ah!" he cried. "Ah!" and dashed into the room behind him.Two steps took me to the open door, and my mind will ever carry aclear picture of the scene within. The window leading out to thegarden was wide open. Beside it, looking like some terrible ghost, hishead girt with bloody bandages, his face drawn and white, stoodSherlock Holmes. The next instant he was through the gap, and I heardthe crash of his body among the laurel bushes outside. With a howl ofrage the master of the house rushed after him to the open window.And then! It was done in an instant, and yet I clearly saw it. Anarm- a woman's arm- shot out from among the leaves. At the sameinstant the Baron uttered a horrible cry- a yell which will alwaysring in my memory. He clapped his two hands to his face and rushedround the room, beating his head horribly against the walls. Then hefell upon the carpet, rolling and writhing, while scream afterscream resounded through the house.

　　"Water! For God's sake, water!" was his cry.

　　I seized a carafe from a side-table and rushed to his aid. At thesame moment the butler and several footmen ran in from the hall. Iremember that one of them fainted as I knelt by the injured man andturned that awful face to the light of the lamp. The vitriol waseating into it everywhere and dripping from the ears and the chin. Oneeye was already white and glazed. The other was red and inflamed.The features which I had admired a few minutes before were now likesome beautiful painting over which the artist has passed a wet andfoul sponge. They were blurred, discoloured, inhuman, terrible.In a few words I explained exactly what had occurred, so far asthe vitriol attack was concerned. Some had climbed through thewindow and others had rushed out on to the lawn, but it was dark andit had begun to rain. Between his screams the victim raged and ravedagainst the avenger. "It was that hell-cat, Kitty Winter!" he cried."Oh, the she-devil! She shall pay for it! She shall pay! Oh, God inheaven, this pain is more than I can bear!"

　　I bathed his face in oil, put cotton wadding on the raw surfaces,and administered a hypodermic of morphia. All suspicion of me hadpassed from his mind in the presence of this shock, and he clung to myhands as if I might have the power even yet to clear those dead-fisheyes which gazed up at me. I could have wept over the ruin had I notremembered very clearly the vile life which had led up to so hideous achange. It was loathsome to feel the pawing of his burning hands,and I was relieved when his family surgeon, closely followed by aspecialist, came to relieve me of my charge. An inspector of policehad also arrived, and to him I handed my real card. It would have beenuseless as well as foolish to do otherwise, for I was nearly as wellknown by sight at the Yard as Holmes himself. Then I left that houseof gloom and terror. Within an hour I was at Baker Street.Holmes was seated in his familiar chair, looking very pale andexhausted. Apart from his injuries, even his iron nerves had beenshocked by the events of the evening, and he listened with horror tomy account of the Baron's transformation.

　　"The wages of sin, Watson- the wages of sin!" said he. "Sooner orlater it will always come. God knows, there was sin enough," he added,taking up a brown volume from the table. "Here is the book the womantalked of. If this will not break off the marriage, nothing evercould. But it will, Watson. It must. No self-respecting woman couldstand it."

　　"It is his love diary?"

　　"Or his lust diary. Call it what you will. The moment the woman toldus of it I realized what a tremendous weapon was there if we could butlay our hands on it. I said nothing at the time to indicate mythoughts, for this woman might have given it away. But I broodedover it. Then this assault upon me gave me the chance of letting theBaron think that no precautions need be taken against me. That was allto the good. I would have waited a little longer, but his visit toAmerica forced my hand. He would never have left so compromising adocument behind him. Therefore we had to act at once. Burglary atnight is impossible. He takes precautions. But there was a chance inthe evening if I could only be sure that his attention was engaged.That was where you and your blue saucer came in. But I had to besure of the position of the book, and I knew I had only a fewminutes in which to act, for my time was limited by your knowledgeof Chinese pottery. Therefore I gathered the girl up at the lastmoment. How could I guess what the little packet was that shecarried so carefully under her cloak? I thought she had comealtogether on my business, but it seems she had some of her own.""He guessed I came from you."

　　"I feared he would. But you held him in play just long enough for meto get the book though not long enough for an unobserved escape. Ah,Sir James, I am very glad you have come!"

　　Our courtly friend had appeared in answer to a previous summons. Helistened with the deepest attention to Holmes's account of what hadoccurred.

　　"You have done wonders- wonders!" he cried when he had heard thenarrative. "But if these injuries are as terrible as Dr. Watsondescribes, then surely our purpose of thwarting the marriage issufficiently gained without the use of this horrible book."Holmes shook his head.

　　"Women of the De Merville type do not act like that. She wouldlove him the more as a disfigured martyr. No, no. It is his moralside, not his physical, which we have to destroy. That book will bringher back to earth- and I know nothing else that could. It is in hisown writing. She cannot get past it."

　　Sir James carried away both it and the precious saucer. As I wasmyself overdue, I went down with him into the street. A brougham waswaiting for him. He sprang in, gave a hurried order to the cockadedcoachman, then drove swiftly away. He flung his overcoat half out ofthe window to cover the armorial bearings upon the panel, but I hadseen them in the glare of our fanlight none the less. I gasped withsurprise. Then I turned back and ascended the stair to Holmes's room."I have found out who our client is," I cried, bursting with mygreat news. "Why, Holmes, it is-"

　　"It is a loyal friend and a chivalrous gentleman," said Holmes,holding up a restraining hand. "Let that now and forever be enough forus."

　　I do not know how the incriminating book was used. Sir James mayhave managed it. Or it is more probable that so delicate a task wasentrusted to the young lady's father. The effect, at any rate, was allthat could be desired. Three days later appeared a paragraph in theMorning Post to say that the marriage between Baron Adelbert Grunerand Miss Violet de Merville would not take place. The same paper hadthe first police-court hearing of the proceedings against Miss KittyWinter on the grave charge of vitriol-throwing. Such extenuatingcircumstances came out in the trial that the sentence, as will beremembered, was the lowest that was possible for such an offence.Sherlock Holmes was threatened with a prosecution for burglary, butwhen an object is good and a client is sufficiently illustrious,even the rigid British law becomes human and elastic. My friend hasnot yet stood in the dock.

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1926

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE LION'S MANE

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　It is a most singular thing that a problem which was certainly asabstruse and unusual as any which I have faced in my long professionalcareer should have come to me after my retirement, and be brought,as it were, to my very door. It occurred after my withdrawal to mylittle Sussex home, when I had given myself up entirely to thatsoothing life of Nature for which I had so often yearned during thelong years spent amid the gloom of London. At this period of my lifethe good Watson had passed almost beyond my ken. An occasionalweek-end visit was the most that I ever saw of him. Thus I must act asmy own chronicler. Ah! had he but been with me, how much he might havemade of so wonderful a happening and of my eventual triumph againstevery difficulty! As it is, however, I must needs tell my tale in myown plain way, showing by my words each step upon the difficult roadwhich lay before me as I searched for the mystery of the Lion's Mane.My villa is situated upon the southern slope of the downs,commanding a great view of the Channel. At this point the coast-lineis entirely of chalk cliffs, which can only be descended by asingle, long, tortuous path, which is steep and slippery. At thebottom of the path lie a hundred yards of pebbles and shingle, evenwhen the tide is at full. Here and there, however, there are curvesand hollows which make splendid swimming-pools filled afresh with eachflow. This admirable beach extends for some miles in each direction,save only at one point where the little cove and village of Fulworthbreak the line.

　　My house is lonely. I, my old housekeeper, and my bees have theestate all to ourselves. Half a mile off, however, is HaroldStackhurst's well-known coaching establishment, The Gables, quite alarge place, which contains some score of young fellows preparingfor various professions, with a staff of several masters. Stackhursthimself was a well-known rowing Blue in his day, and an excellentall-round scholar. He and I were always friendly from the day I cameto the coast, and he was the one man who was on such terms with methat we could drop in on each other in the evenings without aninvitation.

　　Towards the end of July, 1907, there was a severe gale, the windblowing upchannel, heaping the seas to the base of the cliffs andleaving a lagoon at the turn of the tide. On the morning of which Ispeak the wind had abated, and all Nature was newly washed andfresh. It was impossible to work upon so delightful a day, and Istrolled out before breakfast to enjoy the exquisite air. I walkedalong the cliff path which led to the steep descent to the beach. As Iwalked I heard a shout behind me, and there was Harold Stackhurstwaving his hand in cheery greeting.

　　"What a morning, Mr. Holmes! I thought I should see you out.""Going for a swim, I see."

　　"At your old tricks again," he laughed, patting his bulgingpocket. "Yes. McPherson started early, and I expect I may find himthere."

　　Fitzroy McPherson was the science master, a fine upstanding youngfellow whose life had been crippled by heart trouble followingrheumatic fever. He was a natural athlete, however, and excelled inevery game which did not throw too great a strain upon him. Summer andwinter he went for his swim, and, as I am a swimmer myself, I haveoften joined him.

　　At this moment we saw the man himself. His head showed above theedge of the cliff where the path ends. Then his whole figureappeared at the top, staggering like a drunken man. The next instanthe threw up his hands and, with a terrible cry, fell upon his face.Stackhurst and I rushed forward- it may have been fifty yards- andturned him on his back. He was obviously dying. Those glazed sunkeneyes and dreadful livid cheeks could mean nothing else. One glimmer oflife came into his face: for an instant, and he uttered two or threewords with an eager air of warning. They were slurred andindistinct, but to my ear the list of them, which burst in a shriekfrom his lips, were "the Lion's Mane." It was utterly irrelevant andunintelligible, and yet I could twist the sound into no other sense.Then he half raised himself from the ground, threw his arms into theair, and fell forward on his side. He was dead.

　　My companion was paralyzed by the sudden horror of it, but I, as maywell be imagined, had every sense on the alert. And I had need, for itwas speedily evident that we were, in the presence of an extraordinarycase. The man was dressed only in his Burberry overcoat, his trousers,and an unlaced pair of canvas shoes. As he fell over, his Burberry,which had been simply thrown round his shoulders, slipped off,exposing his trunk. We stared at it in amazement. His back was coveredwith dark red lines as though he had been terribly flogged by a thinwire scourge. The instrument with which this punishment had beeninflicted was clearly flexible, for the long, angry weals cursed roundhis shoulders and ribs. There was blood dripping down his chin, for hehad bitten through his lower lip in the paroxysm of his agony. Hisdrawn and distorted face told how terrible that agony had been.I was kneeling and Stackhurst standing by the body when a shadowfell across us, and we found that Ian Murdoch was by our side. Murdochwas the mathematical coach at the establishment, a tall, dark, thinman, so taciturn and aloof that none can be said to have been hisfriend. He seemed to live in some high, abstract region of surds andconic sections, with little to connect him with ordinary life. Hewas looked upon as an oddity by the students, and would have beentheir butt, but there was some strange outlandish blood in the man,which showed itself not only in his coal-black eyes and swarthy facebut also in occasional outbreaks of temper, which could only bedescribed as ferocious. On one occasion, being plagued by a little dogbelonging to McPherson, he had caught the creature up and burled itthrough the plate-glass window, an action for which Stackhurst wouldcertainly have given him his dismissal had he not been a very valuableteacher. Such was the strange complex man who now appeared besideus. He seemed to be honestly shocked at the sight before him, thoughthe incident of the dog may show that there was no great sympathybetween the dead man and himself.

　　"Poor fellow! Poor fellow! What can I do? How can I help?""Were you with him? Can you tell us what has happened?""No, no, I was late this morning. I was not on the beach at all. Ihave come straight from The Gables. What can I do?"

　　"You can hurry to the police-station at Fulworth. Report thematter at once."

　　Without a word he made off at top speed, and I proceeded to take thematter in hand, while Stackhurst, dazed at this tragedy, remained bythe body. My first task naturally was to note who was on the beach.From the top of the path I could see the whole sweep of it, and it wasabsolutely deserted save that two or three dark figures could beseen far away moving towards the village of Fulworth. Having satisfiedmyself upon this point, I walked slowly down the path. There wasclay or soft marl mixed with the chalk, and every here and there I sawthe same footstep, both ascending and descending. No one else had gonedown to the beach by this track that morning. At one place Iobserved the print of an open hand with the fingers towards theincline. This could only mean that poor McPherson had fallen as heascended. There were rounded depressions, too, which suggested that hehad come down upon his knees more than once. At the bottom of the pathwas the considerable lagoon left by the retreating tide. At the sideof it McPherson had undressed, for there lay his towel on a rock. Itwas folded and dry, so that it would seem that, after all, he hadnever entered the water. Once or twice as I hunted round amid the hardshingle I came on little patches of sand where the print of his canvasshoe, and also of his naked foot, could be seen. The latter factproved that he had made all ready to bathe, though the towel indicatedthat he had not actually done so.

　　And here was the problem clearly defined- as strange a one as hadever confronted me. The man had not been on the beach more than aquarter of an hour at the most. Stackhurst had followed him from TheGables, so there could be no doubt about that. He had gone to batheand had stripped, as the naked footsteps showed. Then he hadsuddenly huddled on his clothes again- they were all dishevelled andunfastened- and he had returned without bathing, or at any, ratewithout drying himself. And the reason for his change of purpose hadbeen that he had been scourged in sonic savage, inhuman fashion,tortured until he bit his lip through in his agony, and was leftwith only strength enough to crawl away and to die. Who had donethis barbarous deed? There were, it is true, small grottos and cavesin the base of the cliffs, but the low sun shone directly into them,and there was no place for concealment. Then, again, there werethose distant figures on the beach. They seemed too far away to havebeen connected with the crime, and the broad lagoon in which McPhersonhad intended to bathe lay between him and them, lapping tip to therocks. On the sea two or three fishing-boats were at no greatdistance. Their occupants might be examined at our leisure. There wereseveral roads for inquiry, but none which led to any very obviousgoal.

　　When I at last returned to the body I found that a little group ofwondering folk had gathered round it. Stackhurst was, of course, stillthere, and Ian Murdoch had just arrived with Anderson, the villageconstable, a big, ginger-moustached man of the slow, solid Sussexbreed- a breed which covers much good sense under a heavy, silentexterior. He listened to everything, took note of all we said, andfinally drew me aside.

　　"I'd be glad of your advice, Mr. Holmes. This is a big thing forme to handle, and I'll hear of it from Lewes if I go wrong."I advised him to send for his immediate superior, and for adoctor; also to allow nothing to be moved, and as few freshfootmarks as possible to be made, until they came. In the meantime Isearched the dead man's pockets. There were his handkerchief, alarge knife, and a small folding card-case. From this projected a slipof paper, which I unfolded and handed to the constable. There waswritten on it in a scrambling, feminine hand:

　　I will be there, you may be sure.

　　MAUDIE.

　　It read like a love affair, an assignation, though when and wherewere a blank. The constable replaced it in the card-case andreturned it with the other things to the pockets of the Burberry.Then, as nothing more suggested itself, I walked back to my housefor breakfast, having first arranged that the base of the cliffsshould be thoroughly searched.

　　Stackhurst was round in an hour or two to tell me that the bodyhad been removed to The Gables, where the inquest would be held. Hebrought with him some serious and definite news. As I expected,nothing had been found in the small caves below the cliff, but hehad examined the papers in McPherson's desk, and there were severalwhich showed an intimate correspondence with a certain Miss MaudBellamy, of Fulworth. We had then established the identity of thewriter of the note.

　　"The police have the letters," he explained. "I could not bringthem. But there is no doubt that it was a serious love affair. I seeno reason, however, to connect it with that horrible happening save,indeed, that the lady had made an appointment with him.""But hardly at a bathing-pool which all of you were in the habitof using," I remarked.

　　"It is mere chance," said he, "that several of the students were notwith McPherson."

　　"Was it mere chance?"

　　Stackhurst knit his brows in thought.

　　"Ian Murdoch held them back," said he. "He would insist upon somealgebraic demonstration before breakfast. Poor chap, he isdreadfully cut up about it all."

　　"And yet I gather that they were not friends."

　　"At one time they were not. But for a year or more Murdoch hasbeen as near to McPherson as he ever could be to anyone. He is notof a very sympathetic disposition by nature."

　　"So I understand. I seem to remember your telling me once about aquarrel over the ill-usage of a dog."

　　"That blew over all right."

　　"But left some vindictive feeling, perhaps."

　　"No, no, I am sure they were real friends."

　　"Well, then, we must explore the matter of the girl. Do you knowher?"

　　"Everyone knows her. She is the beauty of the neighbourhood- areal beauty, Holmes, who would draw attention everywhere. I knewthat McPherson was attracted by her, but I had no notion that it hadgone so far as these letters would seem to indicate."

　　"But who is she?"

　　"She is the daughter of old Tom Bellamy, who owns all the boatsand bathing-cots at Fulworth. He was a fisherman to start with, but isnow a man of some substance. He and his son William run the business.""Shall we walk into Fulworth and see them?"

　　"On what pretext?"

　　"Oh, we can easily find a pretext. After all, this poor man didnot ill-use himself in this outrageous way. Some human hand was on thehandle of that scourge, if indeed it was a scourge which inflicted theinjuries. His circle of acquaintances in this lonely place wassurely limited. Let us follow it up in every direction and we canhardly fail to come upon the motive, which in turn should lead us tothe criminal."

　　It would have been a pleasant walk across the thyme-scented downshad our minds not been poisoned by the tragedy we had witnessed. Thevillage of Fulworth lies in a hollow curving in a semicircle round thebay. Behind the old-fashioned hamlet several modern houses have beenbuilt upon the rising ground. It was to one of these that Stackhurstguided me.

　　"That's The Haven, as Bellamy called it. The one with the cornertower and slate roof. Not bad for a man who started with nothingbut- By Jove, look at that!"

　　The garden gate of The Haven had opened and a man had emerged. Therewas no mistaking that tall, angular, straggling figure. It was IanMurdoch, the mathematician. A moment later we confronted him uponthe road.

　　"Hullo!" said Stackhurst. The man nodded, gave us a sidewaysglance from his curious dark eyes, and would have passed us, but hisprincipal pulled him up.

　　"What were you doing there?" he asked.

　　Murdoch's face flushed with anger. "I am your subordinate, sir,under your roof. I am not aware that I owe you any account of myprivate actions."

　　Stackhurst's nerve; were near the surface after all he hadendured. Otherwise, perhaps, he would have waited. Now he lost histemper completely.

　　"In the circumstances your answer is pure impertinence, Mr.Murdoch."

　　"Your own question might perhaps come under the same heading.""This is not the first time that I have had to overlook yourinsubordinate ways. It will certainly be the last. You will kindlymake fresh arrangements for your future as speedily as you can.""I had intended to do so. I have lost to-day the only person whomade The Gables habitable."

　　He strode off upon his way, while Stackhurst, with angry eyes, stoodglaring after him. "Is he not an impossible, intolerable man" hecried.

　　The one thing that impressed itself forcibly upon my mind was thatMr. Ian Murdoch was taking the first chance to open a path of escapefrom the scene of the crime. Suspicion, vague and nebulous, was nowbeginning to take outline in my mind. Perhaps the visit to theBellamys might throw some further light upon the matter. Stackhurstpulled himself together, and we went forward to the house.Mr. Bellamy proved to be a middle-aged man with a flaming red beard.He seemed to be in a very angry mood, and his face was soon asflorid as his hair.

　　"No, sir, I do not desire any particulars. My son here"-indicating a powerful young man, with a heavy, sullen face, in thecorner of the sitting-room- "is of one mind with me that Mr.McPherson's attentions to Maud were insulting. Yes, sir, the word'marriage' was never mentioned, and yet there were letters andmeetings, and a great deal more of which neither of us couldapprove. She has no mother, and we are her only guardians. We aredetermined-"

　　But the words were taken from his mouth by the appearance of thelady herself. There was no gainsaying that she would have graced anyassembly in the world. Who could have imagined that so rare a flowerwould grow from such a root and in such an atmosphere? Women haveseldom been an attraction to me, for my brain has always governed myheart, but I could not look upon her perfect clear-cut face, withall the soft freshness of the downlands in her delicate colouring,without realizing that no young man would cross her path unscathed.Such was the girl who had pushed open the door and stood now,wide-eyed and intense, in front of Harold Stackhurst.

　　"I know already that Fitzroy is dead," she said. "Do not be afraidto tell me the particulars."

　　"This other gentleman of yours let us know the news," explainedthe father.

　　"There is no reason why my sister should be brought into thematter," growled the younger man.

　　The sister turned a sharp, fierce look upon him. "This is mybusiness, William. Kindly leave me to manage it in my own way. Byall accounts there has been a crime committed. If I can help to showwho did it, it is the least I can do for him who is gone."She listened to a short account from my companion, with a composedconcentration which showed me that she possessed strong character aswell as great beauty. Maud Bellamy will always remain in my memoryas a most complete and remarkable woman. It seems that she alreadyknew me by sight, for she turned to me at the end.

　　"Bring them to justice, Mr. Holmes. You have my sympathy and myhelp, whoever they may be." It seemed to me that she glanced defiantlyat her father and brother as she spoke.

　　"Thank you," said I. "I value a woman's instinct in such matters.You use the word 'they.' You think that more than one was concerned?""I knew Mr. McPherson well enough to be aware that he was a braveand a strong man. No single person could ever have inflicted such anoutrage upon him."

　　"Might I have one word with you alone?"

　　"I tell you, Maud, not to mix yourself up in the matter," criedher father angrily.

　　She looked at me helplessly. "What can I do?"

　　"The whole world will know the facts presently, so there can be noharm if I discuss them here," said I. "I should have preferredprivacy, but if your father will not allow it he must share thedeliberations." Then I spoke of the note which had been found in thedead man's pocket. "It is sure to be produced at the inquest. May Iask you to throw any light upon it that you can?"

　　"I see no reason for mystery," she answered. "We were engaged tobe married, and we only kept it secret because Fitzroy's uncle, who isvery old and said to be dying, might have disinherited him if he hadmarried against his wish. There was no other reason."

　　"You could have told us," growled Mr. Bellamy.

　　"So I would, father, if you had ever shown sympathy."

　　"I object to my girl picking up with men outside her own station.""It was your prejudice against him which prevented us from tellingyou. As to this appointment"- she fumbled in her dress and produceda crumpled note "it was in answer to this."

　　DEAREST [ran the message]:

　　The old place on the beach just after sunset on Tuesday. It is theonly time I can get away.

　　F. M.

　　"Tuesday was to-day, and I had meant to meet him to-night."I turned over the paper. "This never came by post. How did you getit?"

　　"I would rather not answer that question. It has really nothing todo with the matter which you are investigating. But anything whichbears upon that I will most freely answer."

　　She was as good as her word, but there was nothing which was helpfulin our investigation. She had no reason to think that her fiance hadany hidden enemy, but she admitted that she had had several warmadmirers.

　　"May I ask if Mr. Ian Murdoch was one of them?"

　　She blushed and seemed confused.

　　"There was a time when I thought he was. But that was all changedwhen he understood the relations between Fitzroy and myself."Again the shadow round this strange man seemed to me to be takingmore definite shape. His record must be examined. His rooms must be,privately searched. Stackhurst was a willing collaborator, for inhis mind also suspicions were forming. We returned from our visit toThe haven with the hope that one free end of this tangled skein wasalready in our hands.

　　A week passed. The inquest had thrown no light upon the matter andhad been adourned for further evidence. Stackhurst had made discreetinquiry about his subordinate, and there had been a superficial searchof his room, but without result. Personally, I had gone over the wholeground again, both physically and mentally, but with no newconclusions. In all my chronicles the reader will find no case whichbrought me so completely to the limit of my powers. Even myimagination could conceive no solution to the mystery. And thenthere came the incident of the dog.

　　It was my old housekeeper who heard of it first by that strangewireless by which such people collect the news of the countryside."Sad story this, sir, about Mr. McPherson's dog," said she oneevening.

　　I do not encourage such conversations, but the words arrested myattention.

　　"What of Mr. McPherson's dog?"

　　"Dead, sir. Died of grief for its master."

　　"Who told you this?"

　　"Why, sir, everyone is talking of it. It took on terrible, and haseaten nothing for a week. Then to-day two of the young gentlemenfrom The Gables found it dead- down on the beach, sir, at the veryplace where its master met his end."

　　"At the very place." The words stood out clear in my memory. Somedim perception that the matter was vital rose in my mind. That the dogshould die was after the beautiful, faithful nature of dogs. But "inthe very place"! Why should this lonely beach be fatal to it? Was itpossible that it also had been sacrificed to some revengeful feud? Wasit possible-? Yes, the perception was dim, but already something wasbuilding up in my mind. In a few minutes I was on my way to TheGables, where I found Stackhurst in his study. At my request he sentfor Sudbury and Blount, the two students who had found the dog."Yes, it lay on the very edge of the pool," said one of them. "Itmust have followed the trail of its dead master."

　　I saw the faithful little creature, an Airedale terrier, laid outupon the mat in the ball. The body was stiff and rigid, the eyesprojecting, and the limbs contorted. There was agony in every lineof it.

　　From The Gables I walked down to the bathing-pool. The sun hadsunk and the shadow of the great cliff lay black across the water,which glimmered dully like a sheet of lead. The place was deserted andthere was no sign of life save for two sea-birds circling andscreaming overhead. In the fading light I could dimly make out thelittle dog's spoor upon the sand round the very rock on which hismaster's towel had been laid. For a long time I stood in deepmeditation while the shadows grew darker around me. My mind was filledwith racing thoughts. You have known what it was to be in anightmare in which you feel that there is some all-important thing forwhich you search and which you know is there, though it remainsforever just beyond your reach. That was how I felt that evening asI stood alone by that place of death. Then at last I turned and walkedslowly homeward.

　　I had just reached the top of the path when it came to me. Like aflash, I remembered the thing for which I had so eagerly and vainlygrasped. You will know, or Watson has written in vain, that I hold avast store of out-of-the-way knowledge without scientific system,but very available for the needs of my work. My mind is like a crowdedbox-room with packets of all sorts stowed away therein- so many that Imay well have but a vague perception of what was there. I had knownthat there was something which might bear upon this matter. It wasstill vague, but at least I knew how I could make it clear. It wasmonstrous, incredible, and yet it was always a possibility. I wouldtest it to the full.

　　There is a great garret in my little house which is stuffed withbooks. It was into this that I plunged and rummaged for all hour. Atthe end of that time I emerged with a little chocolate and silvervolume. Eagerly I turned up the chapter of which I had a dimremembrance. Yes, it was indeed a far-fetched and unlikelyproposition, and yet I could not be at rest until I had made sure ifit might, indeed, be so. It was late when I retired, with my mindeagerly awaiting the work of the morrow.

　　But that work met with an annoying interruption. I had hardlyswallowed my early cup of tea and was starting for the beach when Ihad a call from Inspector Bardle of the Sussex Constabulary- a steady,solid, bovine man with thoughtful eyes, which looked at me now witha very troubled expression.

　　"I know your immense experience, sir," said he. "This is quiteunofficial, of course, and need go no farther. But I am fairly upagainst it in this McPherson case. The question is, shall I make anarrest, or shall I not?"

　　"Meaning Mr. Ian Murdoch?"

　　"Yes, sir. There is really no one else when you come to think of it.That's the advantage of this solitude. We narrow it down to a verysmall compass. If he did not do it, then who did?"

　　"What have you against him?"

　　He had gleaned along the same furrows as I had. There wasMurdoch's character and the mystery which seemed to hang round theman. His furious bursts of temper, as shown in the incident of thedog. The fact that he had quarrelled with McPherson in the past, andthat there was some reason to think that he might have resented hisattentions to Miss Bellamy. He had all my points, but no fresh ones,save that Murdoch seemed to be making every preparation for departure."What would my position be if I let him slip away with all thisevidence against him?" The burly, phlegmatic man was sorely troubledin his mind.

　　"Consider," I said, "all the essential gaps in your case. On themorning of the crime he can surely prove an alibi. He had been withhis scholars till the last moment, and within a few minutes ofMcPherson's appearance he came upon us from behind. Then bear inmind the absolute impossibility that he could singlehanded haveinflicted this outrage upon a man quite as strong as himself. Finally,there is this question of the instrument with which these injurieswere inflicted."

　　"What could it be but a scourge or flexible whip of some sort?""Have you examined the marks?" I asked.

　　"I have seen them. So has the doctor."

　　"But I have examined them very carefully with a lens. They havepeculiarities."

　　"What are they, Mr. Holmes?"

　　I stepped to my bureau and brought out an enlarged photograph. "Thisis my method in such cases," I explained.

　　"You certainly do things thoroughly, Mr. Holmes."

　　"I should hardly be what I am if I did not. Now let us consider thisweal which extends round the right shoulder. Do you observe nothingremarkable?"

　　"I can't say I do."

　　"Surely it is evident that it is unequal in its intensity. Thereis a dot of extravasated blood here, and another there. There aresimilar indications in this other weal down here. What can that mean?""I have no idea. Have you?"

　　"Perhaps I have. Perhaps I haven't. I may be able to say moresoon. Anything which will define what made that mark will bring us along way towards the criminal."

　　"It is, of course, in absurd idea," said the policeman, "but if ared-hot net of wire had been laid across the back, then these bettermarked points would represent where the meshes crossed each other.""A most ingenious comparison. Or shall we say a very stiffcat-o'-nine-tails with small hard knots upon it?"

　　"By Jove, Mr. Holmes, I think you have hit it."

　　"Or there may be some very different cause, Mr. Bardle. But yourcase is far too weak for an arrest. Besides, we have those last words-the 'Lion's Mane.'"

　　I have wondered whether Ian-"

　　"Yes, I have considered that. If the second word had borne anyresemblance to Murdoch- but it did not. He gave it almost in a shriek.I am sure that it was 'Mane.'"

　　"Have you no alternative, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"Perhaps I have. But I do not care to discuss it until there issomething more solid to discuss."

　　"And when will that be?"

　　"In all hour- possibly less."

　　The inspector rubbed his chin and looked at me with dubious eyes."I wish I could see what was in your mind, Mr. Holmes. Perhapsit's those fishing-boats."

　　"No, no, they were too far out."

　　"Well, then, is it Bellamy and that big son of his? They were nottoo sweet upon Mr. McPherson. Could they have done him a mischief?""No, no, you won't draw me until I am ready," said I with a smile."Now, Inspector, we each have our own work to do. Perhaps if youwere to meet me here at midday-"

　　So far we had got when there came the tremendous interruptionwhich was the beginning of the end.

　　My outer door was flung open, there were blundering footsteps in thepassage, and Ian Murdoch staggered into the room, pallid, dishevelled,his clothes in wild disorder, clawing with his bony hands at thefurniture to hold himself great. "Brandy! Brandy!" he gasped, and fellgroaning upon the sofa.

　　He was not alone. Behind him came Stackhurst, hatless and panting,almost as distrait as his companion.

　　"Yes, yes, brandy!" he cried. "The man is at his last gasp. It wasall I could do to bring him here. He fainted twice upon the way."Half a tumbler of the raw spirit brought about a wondrous change. Hepushed himself up on one arm and swung his coat from his shoulder "ForGod's sake, oil, opium, morphia!" he cried. "Anything to ease thisinfernal agony!" The inspector and I cried out at the sight. There,crisscrossed upon the man's naked shoulder, was the same strangereticulated pattern of red, inflamed lines which had been thedeath-mark of Fitzroy, McPherson.

　　The pain was evidently terrible and was more than local, for thesufferer's breathing would stop for a time, his face would turn black,and then with loud gasps he would clap his hand to his heart, whilehis brow dropped beads of sweat. At any moment he might die. Moreand more brandy was poured down his throat, each fresh dose bringinghim back to life. Pads of cotton-wool soaked in salad-oil seemed totake the agony from the strange wounds. At last his head fellheavily upon the cushion. Exhausted Nature had taken refuge in itslast storehouse of vitality. It was half a sleep and half a faint, butat least it was ease from pain.

　　To question him had been impossible, but the moment we wereassured of his condition Stackhurst turned upon me.

　　"My God!" he cried, "what is it, Holmes? What is it?"

　　"Where did you find him?"

　　"Down on the beach. Exactly where poor McPherson met his end. Ifthis man's heart had been weak as McPherson's was, he would not behere now. More than once I thought he was gone as I brought him up. Itwas too far to The Gables, so I made for you."

　　"Did you see him on the beach?"

　　"I was walking on the cliff when I heard his cry. He was at the edgeof the water, reeling about like a drunken man. I ran down, threw someclothes about him, and brought him up. For heaven's sake, Holmes,use all the powers you have and spare no pains to lift the cursefrom this place, for life is becoming unendurable. Can you, with allyour world-wide reputation, do nothing for us?"

　　"I think I can, Stackhurst. Come with me now! And you, Inspector,come along! We will see if we cannot deliver this murderer into yourhands."

　　Leaving the unconscious man in the charge of my housekeeper, weall three went down to the deadly lagoon. On the shingle there waspiled a little heap of towels and clothes left by the stricken man.Slowly I walked round the edge of the water, my comrades in Indianfile behind me. Most of the pool was quite shallow, but under thecliff where the beach was hollowed out it was four or five feetdeep. It was to this part that a swimmer would naturally go, for itformed a beautiful pellucid green pool as clear as crystal. A lineof rocks lay above it at the base of the cliff, and along this I ledthe way, peering eagerly into the depths beneath me. I had reached thedeepest and stillest pool when my eyes caught that for which they weresearching, and I burst into a shout of triumph.

　　"Cyanea!" I cried. "Cyanea! Behold the Lion's Mane!"

　　The strange object at which I pointed did indeed look like a tangledmass torn from the mane of a lion. It lay upon a rocky shelf somethree feet under the water, a curious waving, vibrating, hairycreature with streaks of silver among its yellow tresses. Itpulsated with a slow, heavy dilation and contraction.

　　"It has done mischief enough. Its day is over!" I cried. "Help me,Stackhurst! Let us end the murderer forever."

　　There was a big boulder just above the ledge, and we pushed it untilit fell with a tremendous splash into the water. When the rippleshad cleared we saw that it had settled upon the ledge below. Oneflapping edge of yellow membrane showed that our victim was beneathit. A thick oily scum oozed out from below the stone and stained thewater round, rising slowly to the surface.

　　"Well, this gets me!" cried the inspector. "What was it, Mr. Holmes?I'm born and bred in these parts, but I never saw such a thing. Itdon't belong to Sussex."

　　"Just as well for Sussex," I remarked. "It may have been thesouthwest gale that brought it up. Come back to my house, both of you,and I will give you the terrible experience of one who has good reasonto remember his own meeting with the same peril of the seas."When we reached my study we found that Murdoch was so farrecovered that he could sit up. He was dazed in mind, and every nowand then was shaken by a paroxysm of pain. In broken words heexplained that he had no notion what had occurred to him, save thatterrific pangs had suddenly shot through him, and that it had takenall his fortitude to reach the bank.

　　"Here is a book," I said, taking up the little volume, "whichfirst brought light into what might have been forever dark. It isOut of Doors, by the famous observer, J. G. Wood. Wood himself verynearly perished from contact with this vile creature, so he wrote witha very full knowledge. Cyanea capillata is the miscreant's fullname, and he can be as dangerous to life as, and far more painfulthan, the bite of the cobra. Let me briefly give this extract."If the bather should see a loose roundish mass of tawny membranesand fibres, something like very large handfuls of lion's mane andsilver paper, let him beware, for this is the fearful stinger,Cyanea capillata.

　　Could our sinister acquaintance be more clearly described?"He goes on to tell of his own encounter with one when swimmingoff the coast of Kent. He found that the creature radiated almostinvisible filaments to the distance of fifty feet, and that anyonewithin that circumference from the deadly centre was in danger ofdeath. Even at a distance the effect upon Wood was almost fatal."The multitudinous threads caused light scarlet lines upon theskin which on closer examination resolved into minute dots orpustules, each dot charged as it were with a red-hot needle making itsway through the nerves.

　　"The local pain was, as he explains, the least part of the exquisitetorment.

　　"Pangs shot through the chest, causing me to fall as if struck bya bullet. The pulsation would cease, and then the heart would give sixor seven leaps as if it would force its way through the chest."It nearly killed him, although he had only been exposed to it inthe disturbed ocean and not in the narrow calm waters of abathing-pool. He says that he could hardly recognize himselfafterwards, so white, wrinkled and shrivelled was his face. Hegriped down brandy, a whole bottleful, and it seems to have savedhis life. There is the book, Inspector. I leave it with you, and youcannot doubt that it contains a full explanation of the tragedy ofpoor McPherson."

　　"And incidentally exonerates me," remarked Ian Murdoch with a wrysmile. "I do not blame you, Inspector, nor you, Mr. Holmes, for yoursuspicions were natural. I feel that on the very eve of my arrest Ihave only cleared myself by sharing the fate of my poor friend.""No, Mr. Murdoch. I was already upon the track, and had I been outas early as I intended I might well have saved you from thisterrific experience."

　　"But how did you know, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"I am an omnivorous reader with a strangely retentive memory fortrifles. That phrase 'the Lion's Mane' haunted my mind. I knew thatI had seen it somewhere in an unexpected context. You have seen thatit does describe the creature. I have no doubt that it was floating onthe water when McPherson saw it, and that this phrase was the only oneby which he could convey to us a warning as to the creature whichhad been his death."

　　"Then I, at least, am cleared," said Murdoch, rising slowly to hisfeet. "There are one or two words of explanation which I shouldgive, for I know the direction in which your inquiries have run. It istrue that I loved this lady, but from the day when she chose my friendMcPherson my one desire was to help her to happiness. I was wellcontent to stand aside and act as their go-between. Often I carriedtheir messages, and it was because I was in their confidence andbecause she was so dear to me that I hastened to tell her of myfriend's death, lest someone should forestall me in a more suddenand heartless manner. She would not tell you, sir, of our relationslest you should disapprove and I might suffer. But with your leave Imust try to get back to The Gables, for my bed will be very welcome."Stackhurst held out his hand. "Our nerves have all been atconcert-pitch," said be. "Forgive what is past, Murdoch. We shallunderstand each other better in the future." They passed outtogether with their arms linked in friendly fashion. The inspectorremained, staring at me in silence with his ox-like eyes."Well, you've done it!" he cried at last. "I had read of you, butI never believed it. It's wonderful!"

　　I was forced to shake my head. To accept such praise was to lowerone's own standards.

　　"I was slow at the outset- culpably slow. Had the body been found inthe water I could hardly have missed it. It was the towel which misledme. The poor fellow had never thought to dry himself, and so I in turnwas led to believe that he had never been in the water. Why, then,should the attack of any water creature suggest itself to me? That waswhere I went astray. Well, well, Inspector, I often ventured tochaff you gentlemen of the police force, but Cyanea capillata verynearly avenged Scotland Yard."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1921

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE MAZARIN STONE

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　It was pleasant to Dr. Watson to find himself once more in theuntidy room of the first floor in Baker Street which had been thestarting-point of so many remarkable adventures. He looked round himat the scientific charts upon the wall, the acid-charred bench ofchemicals, the violin-case leaning in the corner, the coal-scuttle,which contained of old the pipes and tobacco. Finally, his eyes cameround to the fresh and smiling face of Billy, the young but verywise and tactful page, who had helped a little to fill up the gap ofloneliness and isolation which surrounded the saturnine figure ofthe great detective.

　　"It all seems very unchanged, Billy. You don't change, either. Ihope the same can be said of him?"

　　Billy glanced with some solicitude at the closed door of thebedroom.

　　"I think he's in bed and asleep," he said.

　　It was seven in the evening of a lovely summer's day, but Dr. Watsonwas sufficiently familiar with the irregularity of his old friend'shours to feel no surprise at the idea.

　　"That means a case, I suppose?"

　　"Yes, sir, he is very hard at it just now. I'm frightened for hishealth. He gets paler and thinner, and he eats nothing. 'When will yoube pleased to dine, Mr. Holmes?' Mrs. Hudson asked. 'Seven-thirty, theday after to-morrow,' said he. You know his way when he is keen on acase."

　　"Yes, Billy, I know."

　　"He's following someone. Yesterday he was out as a workman lookingfor a job. To-day he was an old woman. Fairly took me in, he did,and I ought to know his ways by now." Billy pointed with a grin to avery baggy parasol which leaned against the sofa. "That's part ofthe old woman's outfit," he said.

　　"But what is it all about, Billy?"

　　Billy sank his voice, as one who discusses great secrets of State."I don't mind telling you, sir, but it should go no farther. It's thiscase of the Crown diamond."

　　"What!- the hundred-thousand-pound burglary?"

　　"Yes, sir. They must get it back, sir. Why, we had the PrimeMinister and the Home Secretary both sitting on that very sofa. Mr.Holmes was very nice to them. He soon put them at their ease andpromised he would do all he could. Then there is Lord Cantlemere-""Ah!"

　　"Yes, sir, you know what that means. He's a stiff 'un, sir, if I maysay so. I can get along with the Prime Minister, and I've nothingagainst the Home Secretary, who seemed a civil, obliging sort ofman, but I can't stand his Lordship. Neither can Mr. Holmes, sir.You see, he don't believe in Mr. Holmes and he was against employinghim. He'd rather he failed."

　　"And Mr. Holmes knows it?"

　　"Mr. Holmes always knows whatever there is to know."

　　"Well, we'll hope he won't fail and that Lord Cantlemere will beconfounded. But I say, Billy, what is that curtain for across thewindow?"

　　"Mr. Holmes had it put up there three days ago. We've gotsomething funny behind it."

　　Billy advanced and drew away the drapery which screened the alcoveof the bow window.

　　Dr. Watson could not restrain a cry of amazement. There was afacsimile of his old friend, dressing-gown and all, the face turnedthree-quarters towards the window and downward, as though reading aninvisible book, while the body was sunk deep in an armchair. Billydetached the head and held it in the air.

　　"We put it at different angles, so that it may seem more lifelike. Iwouldn't dare touch it if the blind were not down. But when it's upyou can see this from across the way."

　　"We used something of the sort once before."

　　"Before my time," said Billy. He drew the window curtains apartand looked out into the street. "There are folk who watch us from overyonder. I can see a fellow now at the window. Have a look foryourself."

　　Watson had taken a step forward when the bedroom door opened, andthe long, thin form of Holmes emerged, his face pale and drawn but hisstep and bearing as active as ever. With a single spring he was at thewindow, and had drawn the blind once more.

　　"That will do, Billy," said he. "You were in danger of your lifethen, my boy, and I can't do without you just yet. Well, Watson, it isgood to see you in your old quarters once again. You come at acritical moment."

　　"So I gather."

　　"You can go, Billy. That boy is a problem, Watson. How far am Ijustified in allowing him to be in danger?"

　　"Danger of what, Holmes?"

　　"Of sudden death. I'm expecting something this evening.""Expecting what?"

　　"To be murdered, Watson."

　　"No, no, you are joking, Holmes!"

　　"Even my limited sense of humour could evolve a better joke thanthat. But we may be comfortable in the meantime, may we not? Isalcohol permitted? The gasogene and cigars are in the old place. Letme see you once more in the customary armchair. You have not, Ihope, learned to despise my pipe and my lamentable tobacco? It hasto take the place of food these days."

　　"But why not eat?"

　　"Because the faculties become refined when you starve them. Why,surely, as a doctor, my dear Watson, you must admit that what yourdigestion gains in the way of blood supply is so much lost to thebrain. I am a brain, Watson. The rest of me is a mere appendix.Therefore, it is the brain I must consider."

　　"But this danger, Holmes?"

　　"Ah, yes, in case it should come off, it would perhaps be as wellthat you should burden your memory with the name and address of themurderer. You can give it to Scotland Yard, with my love and a partingblessing. Sylvius is the name- Count Negretto Sylvius. Write itdown, man, write it down! 136 Moorside Gardens, N.W. Got it?"Watson's honest face was twitching with anxiety. He knew only toowell the immense risks taken by Holmes and was well aware that what hesaid was more likely to be under-statement than exaggeration. Watsonwas always the man of action, and he rose to the occasion."Count me in, Holmes. I have nothing to do for a day or two.""Your morals don't improve, Watson. You have added fibbing to yourother vices. You bear every sign of the busy medical man, with callson him every hour."

　　"Not such important ones. But can't you have this fellow arrested?""Yes, Watson, I could. That's what worries him so."

　　"But why don't you?"

　　"Because I don't know where the diamond is."

　　"Ah! Billy told me- the missing Crown jewel!"

　　"Yes, the great yellow Mazarin stone. I've cast my net and I have myfish. But I have not got the stone. What is the use of taking them? Wecan make the world a better place by laying them by the heels. Butthat is not what I am out for. It's the stone I want."

　　"And is this Count Sylvius one of your fish?"

　　"Yes, and he's a shark. He bites. The other is Sam Merton, theboxer. Not a bad fellow, Sam, but the Count has used him. Sam's nota shark. He is a great big silly bull-headed gudgeon. But he isflopping about in my net all the same."

　　"Where is this Count Sylvius?"

　　"I've been at his very elbow all the morning. You've seen me as anold lady, Watson. I was never more convincing. He actually picked upmy parasol for me once. 'By your leave, madame,' said he-half-Italian, you know, and with the Southern graces of manner when inthe mood, but a devil incarnate in the other mood. Life is full ofwhimsical happenings, Watson."

　　"It might have been tragedy."

　　"Well, perhaps it might. I followed him to old Straubenzee'sworkshop in the Minories. Straubenzee made the air-gun- a verypretty bit of work, as I understand, and I rather fancy it is in theopposite window at the present moment. Have you seen the dummy? Ofcourse, Billy showed it to you. Well, it may get a bullet throughits beautiful head at any moment. Ah, Billy, what is it?"The boy had reappeared in the room with a card upon a tray. Holmesglanced at it with raised eyebrows and an amused smile."The man himself. I had hardly expected this. Grasp the nettle,Watson! A man of nerve. Possibly you have heard of his reputation as ashooter of big game. It would indeed be a triumphant ending to hisexcellent sporting record if he added me to his bag. This is a proofthat he feels my toe very close behind his heel."

　　"Send for the police."

　　"I probably shall. But not just yet. Would you glance carefullyout of the window, Watson, and see if anyone is banging about in thestreet?"

　　Watson looked warily round the edge of the curtain.

　　"Yes, there is one rough fellow near the door."

　　"That will be Sam Merton- the faithful but rather fatuous Sam. Whereis this gentleman, Billy?"

　　"In the waiting-room, sir."

　　"Show him up when I ring."

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"If I am not in the room, show him in all the same."

　　"Yes, sir."

　　Watson waited until the door was closed, and then he turnedearnestly to his companion.

　　"Look here, Holmes, this is simply impossible. This is a desperateman, who sticks at nothing. He may have come to murder you."I should not be surprised."

　　"I insist upon staying with you."

　　"You would be horribly in the way."

　　"In his way?"

　　"No, my dear fellow- in my way."

　　"Well, I can't possibly leave you."

　　"Yes, you can, Watson. And you will, for you have never failed toplay the game. I am sure you will play it to the end. This man hascome for his own purpose, but he may stay for mine." Holmes took outhis notebook and scribbled a few lines. "Take a cab to Scotland Yardand give this to Youghal of the C.I.D. Come back with the police.The fellow's arrest will follow."

　　"I'll do that with joy."

　　"Before you return I may have just time enough to find out where thestone is." He touched the bell. "I think we will go out through thebedroom. This second exit is exceedingly useful. I rather want tosee my shark without his seeing me, and I have, as you willremember, my own way of doing it."

　　It was, therefore, an empty room into which Billy, a minute later,ushered Count Sylvius. The famous game-shot, sportsman, andman-about-town was a big, swarthy fellow, with a formidable darkmoustache shading a cruel, thin-lipped mouth, and surmounted by along, curved nose like the beak of an eagle. He was well dressed,but his brilliant necktie, shining pin, and glittering rings wereflamboyant in their effect. As the door closed behind him he lookedround him with fierce, startled eyes, like one who suspects a trapat every turn. Then he gave a violent start as he saw the impassivehead and the collar of the dressing-gown which projected above thearmchair in the window. At first his expression was one of pureamazement. Then the light of a horrible hope gleamed in his dark,murderous eyes. He took one more glance round to see that there wereno witnesses, and then, on tiptoe, his thick stick half raised, heapproached the silent figure. He was crouching for his final springand blow when a cool, sardonic voice greeted him from the open bedroomdoor:

　　"Don't break it, Count! Don't break it!"

　　The assassin staggered back, amazement in his convulsed face. For aninstant he half raised his loaded cane once more, as if he wouldturn his violence from the effigy to the original; but there wassomething in that steady gray eye and mocking smile which caused hishand to sink to his side.

　　"It's a pretty little thing," said Holmes, advancing towards theimage. "Tavernier, the French modeller, made it. He is as good atwaxworks as your friend Straubenzee is at air-guns."

　　"Air-guns, sir! What do you mean?"

　　"Put your hat and stick on the side-table. Thank you! Pray take aseat. Would you care to put your revolver out also? Oh, very good,if you prefer to sit upon it. Your visit is really most opportune, forI wanted badly to have a few minutes' chat with you."

　　The Count scowled, with heavy, threatening eyebrows.

　　"I, too, wished to have some words with you, Holmes. That is why Iam here. I won't deny that I intended to assault you just now."Holmes swung his leg on the edge of the table.

　　"I rather gathered that you had some idea of the sort in your head,"said he. "But why these personal attentions?"

　　"Because you have gone out of your way to annoy me. Because you haveput your creatures upon my track."

　　"My creatures! I assure you no!"

　　"Nonsense! I have had them followed. Two can play at that game,Holmes."

　　"It is a small point, Count Sylvius, but perhaps you would kindlygive me my prefix when you address me. You can understand that, withmy, routine of work, I should find myself on familiar terms withhalf the rogues' gallery, and you will agree that exceptions areinvidious."

　　"Well, Mr. Holmes, then."

　　"Excellent! But I assure you you are mistaken about my allegedagents."

　　Count Sylvius laughed contemptuously.

　　"Other people can observe as well as you. Yesterday there was an oldsporting man. To-day it was an elderly woman. They held me in view allday."

　　"Really, sir, you compliment me. Old Baron Dowson said the nightbefore he was hanged that in my case what the law had gained the stagehad lost. And now you give my little impersonations your kindlypraise?"

　　"It was you- you yourself?"

　　Holmes shrugged his shoulders. "You can see in the corner theparasol which you so politely handed to me in the Minories beforeyou began to suspect."

　　"If I had known, you might never-"

　　"Have seen this horrible home again. I was well aware of it. Weall have neglected opportunities to deplore. As it happens, you didnot know, so here we are!"

　　The Count's knotted brows gathered more heavily over his menacingeyes. "What you say only makes the matter worse. It was not youragents but your play-acting, busybody self! You admit that you havedogged me. Why?"

　　"Come now, Count. You used to shoot lions in Algeria."

　　"Well?"

　　"But why?"

　　"Why? The sport- the excitement- the danger!"

　　"And, no doubt, to free the country from a pest?"

　　"Exactly!"

　　"My reasons in a nutshell!"

　　The Count sprang to his feet, and his hand involuntarily movedback to his hip-pocket.

　　"Sit down, sir, sit down! There was another, more practical, reason.I want that yellow diamond!"

　　Count Sylvius lay back in his chair with an evil smile."Upon my word!" said he.

　　"You knew that I was after you for that. The real reason why you arehere tonight is to find out how much I know about the matter and howfar my removal is absolutely essential. Well, I should say that,from your point of view, it is absolutely essential, for I know allabout it, save only one thing, which you are about to tell me.""Oh, indeed! And pray, what is this missing fact?"

　　"Where the Crown diamond now is."

　　The Count looked sharply at his companion. "Oh, you want to knowthat, do you? How the devil should I be able to tell you where it is?""You can, and you will."

　　"Indeed!"

　　"You can't bluff me, Count Sylvius." Holmes's eyes, as he gazed athim, contracted and lightened until they were like two menacing pointsof steel. "You are absolute plate-glass. I see to the very back ofyour mind."

　　"Then, of course, you see where the diamond is!"

　　Holmes clapped his hands with amusement, and then pointed a derisivefinger. "Then you do know. You have admitted it!"

　　"I admit nothing."

　　"Now, Count, if you will be reasonable we can do business. If not,you will get hurt."

　　Count Sylvius threw up his eyes to the ceiling. "And you talkabout bluff!" said he.

　　Holmes looked at him thoughtfully like a master chess-player whomeditates his crowning move. Then he threw open the table drawer anddrew out a squat notebook.

　　"Do you know what I keep in this book?"

　　"No, sir, I do not!"

　　"You!"

　　"Me!"

　　"Yes, sir, you! You are all here- every action of your vile anddangerous life."

　　"Damn you, Holmes!" cried the Count with blazing eyes. "There arelimits to my patience!"

　　"It's all here, Count. The real facts as to the death of old Mrs.Harold, who left you the Blymer estate, which you so rapidly gambledaway."

　　"You are dreaming!"

　　"And the complete life history of Miss Minnie Warrender.""Tut! You will make nothing of that!"

　　"Plenty more here, Count. Here is the robbery in the train de-luxeto the Riviera on February 13, 1892. Here is the forged check in thesame year on the Credit Lyonnais."

　　"No; you're wrong there."

　　"Then I am right on the others! Now, Count, you are a card-player.When the other fellow has all the trumps, it saves time to throwdown your hand."

　　"What has all this talk to do with the jewel of which you spoke?""Gently, Count. Restrain that eager mind! Let me get to the pointsin my own humdrum fashion. I have all this against you; but, aboveall, I have a clear case against both you and your fighting bully inthe case of the Crown diamond."

　　"Indeed!"

　　"I have the cabman who took you to Whitehall and the cabman whobrought you away. I have the commissionaire who saw you near the case.I have Ikey Sanders, who refused to cut it up for you. Ikey haspeached, and the game is up."

　　The veins stood out on the Count's forehead. His dark, hairy handswere clenched in a convulsion of restrained emotion. He tried tospeak, but the words would not shape themselves.

　　"That's the hand I play from," said Holmes. "I put it all on thetable. But one card is missing. It's the king of diamonds. I don'tknow where the stone is."

　　"You never shall know."

　　"No? Now, be reasonable, Count. Consider the situation. You aregoing to be locked up for twenty years. So is Sam Merton. What goodare you going to get out of your diamond? None in the world. But ifyou hand it over- well, I'll compound a felony. We don't want you orSam. We want the stone. Give that up, and so far as I am concerned youcan go free so long as you behave yourself in the future. If youmake another slip- well, it will be the last. But this time mycommission is to get the stone, not you."

　　"But if I refuse?"

　　"Why, then- alas!- it must be you and not the stone."

　　Billy had appeared in answer to a ring.

　　"I think, Count, that it would be as well to have your friend Sam atthis conference. After all, his interests should be represented.Billy, you will see a large and ugly gentleman outside the front door.Ask him to come up."

　　"If he won't come, sir?"

　　"No violence, Billy. Don't be rough with him. If you tell him thatCount Sylvius wants him he will certainly come."

　　"What are you going to do now?" asked the Count as Billydisappeared.

　　"My friend Watson was with me just now. I told him that I had ashark and gudgeon in my net; now I am drawing the net and up they cometogether."

　　The Count had risen from his chair, and his hand was behind hisback. Holmes held something half protruding from the pocket of hisdressing-gown.

　　"You won't die in your bed, Holmes."

　　"I have often had the same idea. Does it matter very much? Afterall, Count, your own exit is more likely to be perpendicular thanhorizontal. But these anticipations of the future are morbid. Whynot give ourselves up to the unrestrained enjoyment of the present?"A sudden wild-beast light sprang up in the dark, menacing eyes ofthe master criminal. Holmes's figure seemed to grow taller as hegrew tense and ready.

　　"It is no use your fingering your revolver, my friend," he said in aquiet voice. You know perfectly well that you dare not use it, even ifI gave you time to draw it. Nasty, noisy things, revolvers, Count.Better stick to air-guns. Ah! I think I hear the fairy footstep ofyour estimable partner. Good day, Mr. Merton. Rather dull in thestreet, is it not?"

　　The prize-fighter, a heavily built young man with a stupid,obstinate, slab-sided face, stood awkwardly at the door, looking abouthim with a puzzled expression. Holmes's debonair manner was a newexperience, and though he vaguely felt that it was hostile, he did notknow how to counter it. He turned to his more astute comrade for help."What's the game now, Count? What's this fellow want? What's up?"His voice was deep and raucous.

　　The Count shrugged his shoulders, and it was Holmes who answered."If I may put it in a nutshell, Mr. Merton, I should say it wasall up."

　　The boxer still addressed his remarks to his associate."Is this cove trying to be funny, or what? I'm not in the funny moodmyself."

　　"No, I expect not," said Holmes. "I think I can promise you that youwill feel even less humorous as the evening advances. Now, lookhere, Count Sylvius. I'm a busy man and I can't waste time. I'mgoing into that bedroom. Pray make yourselves quite at home in myabsence. You can explain to your friend how the matter lies withoutthe restraint of my presence. I shall try over the Hoffman 'Barcarole'upon my violin. In five minutes I shall return for your finalanswer. You quite grasp the alternative, do you not? Shall we takeyou, or shall we have the stone?"

　　Holmes withdrew, picking up his violin from the corner as he passed.A few moments later the long-drawn, wailing notes of that mosthaunting of tunes came faintly through the closed door of the bedroom."What is it, then?" asked Merton anxiously as his companion turnedto him. "Does he know about the stone?"

　　"He knows a damned sight too much about it. I'm not sure that hedoesn't know all about it."

　　"Good Lord!" The boxer's sallow face turned a shade whiter."Ikey Sanders has split on us."

　　"He has, has he? I'll do him down a thick 'un for that if I swingfor it."

　　"That won't help us much. We've got to make up our minds what todo."

　　"Half a mo'," said the boxer, looking suspiciously at the bedroomdoor. "He's a leary cove that wants watching. I suppose he's notlistening?"

　　"How can he be listening with that music going?"

　　"That's right. Maybe somebody's behind a curtain. Too manycurtains in this room." As he looked round he suddenly saw for thefirst time the effigy in the window, and stood staring and pointing,too amazed for words.

　　"Tut! it's only a dummy," said the Count.

　　"A fake, is it? Well, strike me! Madame Tussaud ain't in it. It'sthe living spit of him, gown and all. But them curtains, Count!""Oh, confound the curtains! We are wasting our time, and there isnone too much. He can lag us over this stone."

　　"The deuce he can!"

　　"But he'll let us slip if we only tell him where the swag is.""What! Give it up? Give up a hundred thousand quid?"

　　"It's one or the other."

　　Merton scratched his short-cropped pate.

　　"He's alone in there. Let's do him in. If his light were out weshould have nothing to fear."

　　The Count shook his head.

　　"He is armed and ready. If we shot him we could hardly get away in aplace like this. Besides, it's likely enough that the police knowwhatever evidence he has got. Hallo! What was that?"

　　There was a vague sound which seemed to come from the window. Bothmen sprang round, but all was quiet. Save for the one strange figureseated in the chair, the room was certainly empty.

　　"Something in the street," said Merton. "Now look here, guv'nor,you've got the brains. Surely you can think a way out of it. Ifslugging is no use then it's up to you.

　　"I've fooled better men than he," the Count answered. "The stoneis here in my secret pocket. I take no chances leaving it about. Itcan be out of England to-night and cut into four pieces in Amsterdambefore Sunday. He knows nothing of Van Seddar."

　　"I thought Van Seddar was going next week."

　　"He was. But now he must get off by the next boat. One or other ofus must slip round with the stone to Lime Street and tell him.""But the false bottom ain't ready."

　　"Well, he must take it as it is and chance it. There's not amoment to lose." Again, with the sense of danger which becomes aninstinct with the sportsman, he paused and looked hard at thewindow. Yes, it was surely from the street that the faint sound hadcome.

　　"As to Holmes," he continued, "we can fool him easily enough. Yousee, the damned fool won't arrest us if he can get the stone. Well,we'll promise him the stone. We'll put him on the wrong track aboutit, and before he finds that it is the wrong track it will be inHolland and we out of the country."

　　"That sounds good to me!" cried Sam Merton with a grin."You go on and tell the Dutchman to get a move on him. I'll see thissucker and fill him up with a bogus confession. I'll tell him that thestone is in Liverpool. Confound that whining music; it gets on mynerves! By the time he finds it isn't in Liverpool it will be inquarters and we on the blue water. Come back here, out of a linewith that keyhole. Here is the stone."

　　"I wonder you dare carry it."

　　"Where could I have it safer? If we could take it out of Whitehallsomeone else could surely take it out of my lodgings."

　　"Let's have a look at it."

　　Count Sylvius cast a somewhat unflattering glance at his associateand disregarded the unwashed hand which was extended towards him."What- d'ye think I'm going to snitch it off you? See here,mister, I'm getting a bit tired of your ways."

　　"Well, well, no offence, Sam. We can't afford to quarrel. Comeover to the window if you want to see the beauty properly. Now hold itto the light! Here!"

　　"Thank you!"

　　With a single spring Holmes had leaped from the dummy's chair andhad grasped the precious jewel. He held it now in one hand, whilehis other pointed a revolver at the Count's head. The two villainsstaggered back in utter amazement. Before they had recovered Holmeshad pressed the electric bell.

　　"No violence, gentlemen- no violence, I beg of you! Consider thefurniture! It must be very clear to you that your position is animpossible one. The police are waiting below."

　　The Count's bewilderment overmastered his rage and fear."But how the deuce-?" he gasped.

　　"Your surprise is very natural. You are not aware that a second doorfrom my bedroom leads behind that curtain. I fancied that you musthave heard me when I displaced the figure, but luck was on my side. Itgave me a chance of listening to your racy conversation which wouldhave been painfully constrained had you been aware of my presence."The Count gave a gesture of resignation.

　　"We give you best, Holmes. I believe you are the devil himself.""Not far from him, at any rate," Holmes answered with a politesmile.

　　Sam Merton's slow intellect had only gradually appreciated thesituation. Now, as the sound of heavy steps came from the stairsoutside, he broke silence at last.

　　"A fair cop!" said he. "But, I say, what about that bloomin' fiddle!I hear it yet."

　　"Tut, tut!" Holmes answered. "You are perfectly right. Let itplay! These modern gramophones are a remarkable invention."There was an inrush of police, the handcuffs clicked and thecriminals were led to the waiting cab. Watson lingered with Holmes,congratulating him upon this fresh leaf added to his laurels. Oncemore their conversation was interrupted by the imperturbable Billywith his card-tray.

　　"Lord Cantlemere, sir."

　　"Show him up, Billy. This is the eminent peer who represents thevery highest interests," said Holmes. "He is an excellent and loyalperson, but rather of the old regime. Shall we make him unbend? Darewe venture upon a slight liberty? He knows, we may conjecture, nothingof what has occurred."

　　The door opened to admit a thin, austere figure with a hatchetface and drooping mid-Victorian whiskers of a glossy blackness whichhardly corresponded with the rounded shoulders and feeble gait. Holmesadvanced affably, and shook an unresponsive hand.

　　"How do you do, Lord Cantlemere? It is chilly for the time ofyear, but rather warm indoors. May I take your overcoat?""No, I thank you; I will not take it off."

　　Holmes laid his hand insistently upon the sleeve.

　　"Pray allow me! My friend Dr. Watson would assure you that thesechanges of temperature are most insidious."

　　His Lordship shook himself free with some impatience.

　　"I am quite comfortable, sir. I have no need to stay. I havesimply looked in to know how your self-appointed task wasprogressing."

　　"It is difficult- very difficult."

　　"I feared that you would find it so."

　　There was a distinct sneer in the old courtier's words and manner."Every man finds his limitations, Mr. Holmes, but at least itcures us of the weakness of self-satisfaction."

　　"Yes, sir, I have been much perplexed."

　　"No doubt."

　　"Especially upon one point. Possibly you could help me upon it?""You apply for my advice rather late in the day. I thought thatyou had your own all-sufficient methods. Still, I am ready to helpyou."

　　"You see, Lord Cantlemere, we can no doubt frame a case againstthe actual thieves."

　　"When you have caught them."

　　"Exactly. But the question is- how shall we proceed against thereceiver?"

　　"Is this not rather premature?"

　　"It is as well to have our plans ready. Now, what would you regardas final evidence against the receiver?"

　　"The actual possession of the stone."

　　"You would arrest him upon that?"

　　"Most undoubtedly."

　　Holmes seldom laughed, but he got as near it as his old friendWatson could remember.

　　"In that case, my dear sir, I shall be under the painful necessityof advising your arrest."

　　Lord Cantlemere was very angry. Some of the ancient firesflickered up into his sallow checks.

　　"You take a great liberty, Mr. Holmes. In fifty years of officiallife I cannot recall such a case. I am a busy man, sir, engaged uponimportant affairs, and I have no time or taste for foolish jokes. Imay tell you frankly, sir, that I have never been a believer in yourpowers, and that I have always been of the opinion that the matter wasfar safer in the hands of the regular police force. Your conductconfirms all my conclusions. I have the honour, sir, to wish yougood-evening."

　　Holmes had swiftly changed his position and was between the peer andthe door.

　　"One moment, sir," said he. "To actually go off with the Mazarinstone would be a more serious offence than to be found in temporarypossession of it."

　　"Sir, this is intolerable! Let me pass."

　　"Put your hand in the right-hand pocket of your overcoat.""What do you mean, sir?"

　　"Come- come, do what I ask."

　　An instant later the amazed peer was standing, blinking andstammering, with the great yellow stone on his shaking palm."What! What! How is this, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"Too bad, Lord Cantlemere, too bad!" cried Holmes. "My old friendhere will tell you that I have an impish habit of practical joking.Also that I can never resist a dramatic situation. I took the liberty-the very great liberty, I admit- of putting the stone into your pocketat the beginning of our interview."

　　The old peer stared from the stone to the smiling face before him."Sir, I am bewildered. But- yes- it is indeed the Mazarin stone.We are greatly your debtors, Mr. Holmes. Your sense of humour may,as you admit, be somewhat perverted, and its exhibition remarkablyuntimely, but at least I withdraw any reflection I have made upon youramazing professional powers. But how-"

　　"The case is but half finished; the details can wait. No doubt, LordCantlemere, your pleasure in telling of this successful result inthe exalted role to which you return will be some small atonementfor my practical joke. Billy, you will show his Lordship out, and tellMrs. Hudson that I should be glad if she would send up dinner fortwo as soon as possible."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1904

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE MISSING THREE-QUARTER

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　We were fairly accustomed to receive weird telegrams at BakerStreet, but I have a particular recollection of one which reached uson a gloomy February morning, some seven or eight years ago, andgave Mr. Sherlock Holmes a puzzled quarter of an hour. It wasaddressed to him, and ran thus:

　　Please await me. Terrible misfortune. Right wing three-quartermissing, indispensable to-morrow.

　　OVERTON.

　　"Strand postmark, and dispatched ten thirty-six," said Holmes,reading it over and over. "Mr. Overton was evidently considerablyexcited when he sent it, and somewhat incoherent in consequence. Well,well, he will be here, I daresay, by the time I have looked throughthe Times, and then we shall know all about it. Even the mostinsignificant problem would be welcome in these stagnant days."Things had indeed been very slow with us, and I had learned to dreadsuch periods of inaction, for I knew by experience that my companion'sbrain was so abnormally active that it was dangerous to leave itwithout material upon which to work. For years I had graduallyweaned him from that drug mania which had threatened once to check hisremarkable career. Now I knew that under ordinary conditions he nolonger craved for this artificial stimulus, but I was well awarethat the fiend was not dead but sleeping, and I have known that thesleep was a light one and the waking near when in periods ofidleness I have seen the drawn look upon Holmes's ascetic face, andthe brooding of his deep-set and inscrutable eyes. Therefore I blessedthis Mr. Overton whoever he might be, since he had come with hisenigmatic message to break that dangerous calm which brought moreperil to my friend than all the storms of his tempestuous life.As we had expected, the telegram was soon followed by its sender,and the card of Mr. Cyril Overton, Trinity College, Cambridge,announced the arrival of an enormous young man, sixteen stone of solidbone and muscle, who spanned the doorway with his broad shoulders, andlooked from one of us to the other with a comely face which washaggard with anxiety.

　　"Mr. Sherlock Holmes?"

　　My companion bowed.

　　"I've been down to Scotland Yard, Mr. Holmes. I saw InspectorStanley Hopkins. He advised me to come to you. He said the case, sofar as he could see, was more in your line than in that of the regularpolice."

　　"Pray sit down and tell me what is the matter."

　　"It's awful, Mr. Holmes- simply awfull I wonder my hair isn'tgray. Godfrey Staunton- you've heard of him, of course? He's simplythe hinge that the whole team turns on. I'd rather spare two fromthe pack, and have Godfrey for my three-quarter line. Whether it'spassing, or tackling, or dribbling, there's no one to touch him, andthen, he's got the head, and can hold us all together. What am I todo? That's what I ask you, Mr. Holmes. There's Moorhouse, firstreserve, but he is trained as a half, and he always edges right inon to the scrum instead of keeping out on the touchline. He's a fineplace-kick, it's true, but then he has no judgment, and he can'tsprint for nuts. Why, Morton or Johnson, the Oxford fliers, could rompround him. Stevenson is fast enough, but he couldn't drop from thetwenty-five line, and a three-quarter who can't either punt or dropisn't worth a place for pace alone. No, Mr. Holmes, we are done unlessyou can help me to find Godfrey Staunton."

　　My friend had listened with amused surprise to this long speech,which was poured forth with extraordinary vigour and earnestness,every point being driven home by the slapping of a brawny hand uponthe speaker's knee. When our visitor was silent Holmes stretched outhis hand and took down letter "S" of his commonplace book. For once hedug in vain into that mine of varied information.

　　"There is Arthur H. Staunton, the rising young forger," said he,"and there was Henry Staunton, whom I helped to hang, but GodfreyStaunton is a new name to me."

　　It was our visitor's turn to look surprised.

　　"Why, Mr. Holmes, I thought you knew things," said he. "I suppose,then, if you have never heard of Godfrey Staunton, you don't knowCyril Overton either?"

　　Holmes shook his head good humouredly.

　　"Great Scott!" cried the athlete. "Why, I was first reserve forEngland against Wales, and I've skippered the 'Varsity all thisyear. But that's nothing! I didn't think there was a soul in Englandwho didn't know Godfrey Staunton, the crack three-quarter,Cambridge, Blackheath, and five Internationals. Good Lord! Mr. Holmes,where have you lived?"

　　Holmes laughed at the young giant's naive astonishment."You live in a different world to me, Mr. Overton- a sweeter andhealthier one. My ramifications stretch out into many sections ofsociety, but never, I am happy to say, into amateur sport, which isthe best and soundest thing in England. However, your unexpected visitthis morning shows me that even in that world of fresh air and fairplay, there may be work for me to do. So now, my good sir, I beg youto sit down and to tell me, slowly and quietly, exactly what it isthat has occurred, and how you desire that I should help you."Young Overton's face assumed the bothered look of the man who ismore accustomed to using his muscles than his wits, but by degrees,with many repetitions and obscurities which I may omit from hisnarrative, he laid his strange story before us.

　　"It's this way, Mr. Holmes. As I have said, I am the skipper ofthe Rugger team of Cambridge 'Varsity, and Godfrey Staunton is my bestman. To-morrow we play Oxford. Yesterday we all came up, and wesettled at Bentley's private hotel. At ten o'clock I went round andsaw that all the fellows had gone to roost, for I believe in stricttraining and plenty of sleep to keep a team fit. I had a word or twowith Godfrey before he turned in. He seemed to me to be pale andbothered. I asked him what was the matter. He said he was all right-just a touch of headache. I bade him good-night and left him. Halfan hour later, the porter tells me that a rough looking man with abeard called with a note for Godfrey. He had not gone to bed, andthe note was taken to his room. Godfrey read it, and fell back in achair as if he had been pole-axed. The porter was so scared that hewas going to fetch me, but Godfrey stopped him, had a drink ofwater, and pulled himself together. Then he went downstairs, said afew words to the man who was waiting in the hall, and the two ofthem went off together. The last that the porter saw of them, theywere almost running down the street in the direction of the Strand.This morning Godfrey's room was empty, his bed had never been sleptin, and his things were all just as I had seen them the nightbefore. He had gone off at a moment's notice with this stranger, andno word has come from him since. I don't believe he will ever comeback. He was a sportsman, was Godfrey, down to his marrow, and hewouldn't have stopped his training and let in his skipper if it werenot for some cause that was too strong for him. No: I feel as if hewere gone for good, and we should never see him again."Sherlock Holmes listened with the deepest attention to this singularnarrative.

　　"What did you do?" he asked.

　　"I wired to Cambridge to learn if anything had been heard of himthere. I have had an answer. No one has seen him."

　　"Could he have got back to Cambridge?"

　　"Yes, there is a late train- quarter-past eleven."

　　"But, so far as you can ascertain, he did not take it?""No, he has not been seen."

　　"What did you do next?"

　　"I wired to Lord Mount-James."

　　"Why to Lord Mount-James?"

　　"Godfrey is an orphan, and Lord Mount-James is his nearest relative-his uncle, I believe."

　　"Indeed. This throws new light upon the matter. Lord Mount-Jamesis one of the richest men in England."

　　"So I've heard Godfrey say."

　　"And your friend was closely related?"

　　"Yes, he was his heir, and the old boy is nearly eighty- cram fullof gout, too. They say he could chalk his billiard-cue with hisknuckles. He never allowed Godfrey a shilling in his life, for he isan absolute miser, but it will all come to him right enough.""Have you heard from Lord Mount-James?"

　　"No."

　　"What motive could your friend have in going to Lord Mount-James?""Well, something was worrying him the night before, and if it was todo with money it is possible that he would make for his nearestrelative, who had so much of it, though from all I have heard he wouldnot have much chance of getting it. Godfrey was not fond of the oldman. He would not go if he could help it."

　　"Well, we can soon determine that. If your friend was going to hisrelative, Lord Mount-James, you have then to explain the visit of thisrough-looking fellow at so late an hour, and the agitation that wascaused by his coming."

　　Cyril Overton pressed his hands to his head. "I can make nothingof it," said he.

　　"Well, well, I have a clear day, and I shall be happy to look intothe matter," said Holmes. "I should strongly recommend you to makeyour preparations for your match without reference to this younggentleman. It must, as you say, have been an overpowering necessitywhich tore him away in such a fashion, and the same necessity islikely to hold him away. Let us step round together to the hotel,and see if the porter can throw any fresh light upon the matter."Sherlock Holmes was a past-master in the art of putting a humblewitness at his ease, and very soon, in the privacy of GodfreyStaunton's abandoned room, he had extracted all that the porter had totell. The visitor of the night before was not a gentleman, neither washe a workingman. He was simply what the porter described as a"medium looking chap," a man of fifty, beard grizzled, pale face,quietly dressed. He seemed himself to be agitated. The porter hadobserved his hand trembling when he had held out the note. GodfreyStaunton had crammed the note into his pocket. Staunton had not shakenhands with the man in the hall. They had exchanged a few sentences, ofwhich the porter had only distinguished the one word "time." Then theyhad hurried off in the manner described. It was just half-past tenby the hall clock.

　　"Let me see," said Holmes, seating himself on Staunton's bed. "Youare the day porter, are you not?"

　　"Yes, sir, I go off duty at eleven."

　　"The night porter saw nothing, I suppose?"

　　"No, sir, one theatre party came in late. No one else.""Were you on duty all day yesterday?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"Did you take any messages to Mr. Staunton?"

　　"Yes, sir, one telegram."

　　"Ah! that's interesting. What o'clock was this?"

　　"About six."

　　"Where was Mr. Staunton when he received it?"

　　"Here in his room."

　　"Were you present when he opened it?"

　　"Yes, sir, I waited to see if there was an answer."

　　"Well, was there?"

　　"Yes, sir, he wrote an answer."

　　"Did you take it?"

　　"No, he took it himself."

　　"But he wrote it in your presence."  "Yes, sir. I was standing bythe door, and he with his back turned to that table. When he hadwritten it, he said: 'All right, porter, I will take this myself.'""What did he write it with?"

　　"A pen, sir."

　　"Was the telegraphic form one of these on the table?"

　　"Yes, sir, it was the top one."

　　Holmes rose. Taking the forms, he carried them over to the windowand carefully examined that which was uppermost.

　　"It is a pity he did not write in pencil," said he, throwing themdown again with a shrug of disappointment. "As you have no doubtfrequently observed, Watson, the impression usually goes through- afact which has dissolved many a happy marriage. However, I can find notrace here. I rejoice, however, to perceive that he wrote with abroad-pointed quill pen, and I can hardly doubt that we will find someimpression upon this blotting-pad. Ah, yes, surely this is the verything!"

　　He tore off a strip of the blotting-paper and turned towards usthe following hieroglyphic:

　　(See illustration.)

　　Cyril Overton was much excited. "Hold it to the glass!" he cried."That is unnecessary," said Holmes. "The paper is thin, and thereverse will give the message. Here it is." He turned it over, andwe read:

　　(See illustration.)

　　"So that is the tail end of the telegram which Godfrey Stauntondispatched within a few hours of his disappearance. There are at leastsix words of the message which have escaped us; but what remains-'Stand by us for God's sake!'- proves that this young man saw aformidable danger which approached him, and from which someone elsecould protect him. 'Us,' mark you! Another person was involved. Whoshould it be but the pale-faced, bearded man, who seemed himself in sonervous a state? What, then, is the connection between GodfreyStaunton and the bearded man? And what is the third source fromwhich each of them sought for help against pressing danger? Ourinquiry has already narrowed down to that."

　　"We have only to find to whom that telegram is addressed," Isuggested.

　　"Exactly, my dear Watson. Your reflection, though profound, hadalready crossed my mind. But I daresay it may have come to your noticethat, if you walk into a postoffice and demand to see thecounterfoil of another man's message, there may be some disinclinationon the part of the officials to oblige you. There is so much redtape in these matters. However, I have no doubt that with a littledelicacy and finesse the end may be attained. Meanwhile, I should likein your presence, Mr. Overton, to go through these papers which havebeen left upon the table."

　　There were a number of letters, bills, and notebooks, which Holmesturned over and examined with quick, nervous fingers and darting,penetrating eyes. "Nothing here," he said, at last. "By the way, Isuppose your friend was a healthy young fellow- nothing amiss withhim?"

　　"Sound as a bell."

　　"Have you ever known him ill?"

　　"Not a day. He has been laid up with a hack, and once he slipped hisknee-cap, but that was nothing."

　　"Perhaps he was not so strong as you suppose. I should think hemay have had some secret trouble. With your assent, I will put oneor two of these papers in my pocket, in case they should bear upon ourfuture inquiry."

　　"One moment- one moment!" cried a querulous voice, and we lookedup to find a queer little old man, jerking and twitching in thedoorway. He was dressed in rusty black, with a very broad-brimmedtop-hat and a loose white necktie- the whole effect being that of avery rustic parson or of an undertaker's mute. Yet, in spite of hisshabby and even absurd appearance, his voice had a sharp crackle,and his manner a quick intensity which commanded attention."Who are you, sir, and by what right do you touch this gentleman'spapers?" he asked.

　　"I am a private detective, and I am endeavouring to explain hisdisappearance."

　　"Oh, you are, are you? And who instructed you, eh?"

　　"This gentleman, Mr. Staunton's friend, was referred to me byScotland Yard."

　　"Who are you, sir?"

　　"I am Cyril Overton."

　　"Then it is you who sent me a telegram. My name is Lord Mount-James.I came round as quickly as the Bayswater bus would bring me. So youhave instructed a detective?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"And are you prepared to meet the cost?"

　　"I have no doubt, sir, that my friend Godfrey, when we find him,will be prepared to do that."

　　"But if he is never found, eh? Answer me that!"

　　"In that case, no doubt his family-"

　　"Nothing of the sort, sir!" screamed the little man. "Don't lookto me for a penny- not a penny! You understand that, Mr. Detective!I am all the family that this young man has got, and I tell you that Iam not responsible. If he has any expectations it is due to the factthat I have never wasted money, and I do not propose to begin to do sonow. As to those papers with which you are making so free, I maytell you that in case there should be anything of any value amongthem, you will be held strictly to account for what you do with them.""Very good, sir," said Sherlock Holmes. "May I ask, in themeanwhile, whether you have yourself any theory to account for thisyoung man's disappearance?"

　　"No, sir, I have not. He is big enough and old enough to lookafter himself, and if he is so foolish as to lose himself, Ientirely refuse to accept the responsibility of hunting for him.""I quite understand your position," said Holmes, with amischievous twinkle in his eyes. "Perhaps you don't quite understandmine. Godfrey Staunton appears to have been a poor man. If he has beenkidnapped, it could not have been for anything which he himselfpossesses. The fame of your wealth has gone abroad, LordMount-James, and it is entirely possible that a gang of thieves havesecured your nephew in order to gain from him some information as toyour house, your habits, and your treasure."

　　The face of our unpleasant little visitor turned as white as hisneckcloth.

　　"Heavens, sir, what an idea! I never thought of such villainy!What inhuman rogues there are in the world! But Godfrey is a fine lad-a staunch lad. Nothing would induce him to give his old uncle away.I'll have the plate moved over to the bank this evening. In themeantime spare no pains, Mr. Detective! I beg you to leave no stoneunturned to bring him safely back. As to money, well, so far as afiver or even a tenner goes you can always look to me."Even in his chastened frame of mind, the noble miser could give usno information which could help us, for he knew little of theprivate life of his nephew. Our only clue lay in the truncatedtelegram, and with a copy of this in his hand Holmes set forth to finda second link for his chain. We had shaken off Lord Mount-James, andOverton had gone to consult with the other members of his team overthe misfortune which had befallen them.

　　There was a telegraph-office at a short distance from the hotel.We halted outside it.

　　"It's worth trying, Watson," said Holmes. "Of course, with a warrantwe could demand to see the counterfoils, but we have not reachedthat stage yet. I don't suppose they remember faces in so busy aplace. Let us venture it."

　　"I am sorry to trouble you," said he, in his blandest manner, to theyoung woman behind the grating; "there is some small mistake about atelegram I sent yesterday. I have had no answer, and I very muchfear that I must have omitted to put my name at the end. Could youtell me if this was so?"

　　The young woman turned over a sheaf of counterfoils.

　　"What o'clock was it?" she asked.

　　"A little after six."

　　"Whom was it to?"

　　Holmes put his finger to his lips and glanced at me. "The last wordsin it were 'For God's sake,'" he whispered, confidentially; "I am veryanxious at getting no answer."

　　The young woman separated one of the forms.

　　"This is it. There is no name," said she, smoothing it out uponthe counter.

　　"Then that, of course, accounts for my getting no answer," saidHolmes. "Dear me, how very stupid of me, to be sure! Good-morning,miss, and many thanks for having relieved my mind." He chuckled andrubbed his hands when we found ourselves in the street once more."Well?" I asked.

　　"We progress, my dear Watson, we progress. I had seven differentschemes for getting a glimpse of that telegram, but I could hardlyhope to succeed the very first time."

　　"And what have you gained?"

　　"A starting-point for our investigation." He hailed a cab. "King'sCross Station," said he.

　　"We have a journey, then?"

　　"Yes, I think we must run down to Cambridge together. All theindications seem to me to point in that direction."

　　"Tell me," I asked, as we rattled up Gray's Inn Road, "have youany suspicion yet as to the cause of the disappearance? I don'tthink that among all our cases I have known one where the motivesare more obscure. Surely you don't really imagine that he may bekidnapped in order to give information against his wealthy uncle?""I confess, my dear Watson, that that does not appeal to me as avery probable explanation. It struck me, however, as being the onewhich was most likely to interest that exceedingly unpleasant oldperson."

　　"It certainly did that; but what are your alternatives?""I could mention several. You must admit that it is curious andsuggestive that this incident should occur on the eve of thisimportant match, and should involve the only man whose presenceseems essential to the success of the side. It may, of course, be acoincidence, but it is interesting. Amateur sport is free frombetting, but a good deal of outside betting goes on among thepublic, and it is possible that it might be worth someone's while toget at a player as the ruffians of the turf get at a race-horse. Thereis one explanation. A second very obvious one is that this young manreally is the heir of a great property, however modest his means mayat present be, and it is not impossible that a plot to hold him forransom might be concocted."

　　"These theories take no account of the telegram."

　　"Quite true, Watson. The telegram still remains the only solid thingwith which we have to deal, and we must not permit our attention towander away from it. It is to gain light upon the purpose of thistelegram that we are now upon our way to Cambridge. The path of ourinvestigation is at present obscure, but I shall be very muchsurprised if before evening we have not cleared it up, or made aconsiderable advance along it."

　　It was already dark when we reached the old university city.Holmes took a cab at the station and ordered the man to drive to thehouse of Dr. Leslie Armstrong. A few minutes later, we had stoppedat a large mansion on the busiest thoroughfare. We were shown in,and after a long wait were at last admitted into the

　　consulting-room, where we found the doctor seated behind his table.It argues the degree in which I had lost touch with my professionthat the name of Leslie Armstrong was unknown to me. Now I am awarethat he is not only one of the heads of the medical school of theuniversity, but a thinker of European reputation in more than onebranch of science. Yet even without knowing his brilliant record onecould not fail to be impressed by a mere glance at the man, thesquare, massive face, the brooding eyes under the thatched brows,and the granite moulding of the inflexible jaw. A man of deepcharacter, a man with an alert mind, grim, ascetic, self-contained,formidable- so I read Dr. Leslie Armstrong. He held my friend's cardin his hand, and he looked up with no very pleased expression upon hisdour features.

　　"I have heard your name, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, and I am aware of yourprofession- one of which I by no means approve."

　　"In that, Doctor, you will find yourself in agreement with everycriminal in the country," said my friend, quietly.

　　"So far as your efforts are directed towards the suppression ofcrime, sir, they must have the support of every reasonable member ofthe community, though I cannot doubt that the official machinery isamply sufficient for the purpose. Where your calling is more open tocriticism is when you pry into the secrets of private individuals,when you rake up family matters which are better hidden, and whenyou incidentally waste the time of men who are more busy thanyourself. At the present moment, for example, I should be writing atreatise instead of conversing with you."

　　"No doubt, Doctor; and yet the conversation may prove more importantthan the treatise. Incidentally, I may tell you that we are doingthe reverse of what you very justly blame, and that we areendeavouring to prevent anything like public exposure of privatematters which must necessarily follow when once the case is fairlyin the hands of the official police. You may look upon me simply as anirregular pioneer, who goes in front of the regular forces of thecountry. I have come to ask you about Mr. Godfrey Staunton.""What about him?"

　　"You know him, do you not?"  "'He is an intimate friend of mine.""You are aware that he has disappeared?"

　　"Ah, indeed!" There was no change of expression in the ruggedfeatures of the doctor.

　　"He left his hotel last night- he has not been heard of.""No doubt he will return."

　　"To-morrow is the 'Varsity football match."

　　"I have no sympathy with these childish games. The young man'sfate interests me deeply, since I know him and like him. Thefootball match does not come within my horizon at all.""I claim your sympathy, then, in my investigation of Mr.Staunton's fate. Do you know where he is?"

　　"Certainly not."

　　"You have not seen him since yesterday?"

　　"No, I have not."

　　"Was Mr. Staunton a healthy man?"

　　"Absolutely."

　　"Did you ever know him ill?"

　　"Never."

　　Holmes popped a sheet of paper before the doctor's eyes. "Thenperhaps you will explain this receipted bill for thirteen guineas,paid by Mr. Godfrey Staunton last month to Dr. Leslie Armstrong, ofCambridge. I picked it out from among the papers upon his desk."The doctor flushed with anger.

　　"I do not feel that there is any reason why I should render anexplanation to you, Mr. Holmes."

　　Holmes replaced the bill in his notebook. "If you prefer a publicexplanation, it must come sooner or later," said he. "I have alreadytold you that I can hush up that which others will be bound topublish, and you would really be wiser to take me into your completeconfidence."

　　"I know nothing about it."

　　"Did you hear from Mr. Staunton in London?"

　　"Certainly not."

　　"Dear me, dear me- the postoffice again!" Holmes sighed, wearily. "Amost urgent telegram was dispatched to you from London by GodfreyStaunton at six fifteen yesterday evening- a telegram which isundoubtedly associated with his disappearance- and yet you have nothad it. It is most culpable. I shall certainly go down to the officehere and register a complaint."

　　Dr. Leslie Armstrong sprang up from behind his desk, and his darkface was crimson with fury.

　　"I'll trouble you to walk out of my house, sir," said he. "You cantell your employer, Lord Mount-James, that I do not wish to haveanything to do either with him or with his agents. No, sir- notanother word!" He rang the bell furiously. "John, show these gentlemenout!" A pompous butler ushered us severely to the door, and we foundourselves in the street. Holmes burst out laughing.

　　"Dr. Leslie Armstrong is certainly a man of energy and character,"said he. "I have not seen a man who, if he turns his talents that way,was more calculated to fill the gap left by the illustriousMoriarty. And now, my poor Watson, here we are, stranded andfriendless in this inhospitable town, which we cannot leave withoutabandoning our case. This little inn just opposite Armstrong's houseis singularly adapted to our needs. If you would engage a front roomand purchase the necessaries for the night, I may have time to makea few inquiries."

　　These few inquiries proved, however, to be a more lengthy proceedingthan Holmes had imagined, for he did not return to the inn untilnearly nine o'clock. He was pale and dejected, stained with dust,and exhausted with hunger and fatigue. A cold supper was ready uponthe table, and when his needs were satisfied and his pipe alight hewas ready to take that half comic and wholly philosophic view whichwas natural to him when his affairs were going awry. The sound ofcarriage wheels caused him to rise and glance out of the window. Abrougham and pair of grays, under the glare of a gas-lamp, stoodbefore the doctor's door.

　　"It's been out three hours," said Holmes; "started at half-past six,and here it is back again. That gives a radius of ten or twelve miles,and he does it once, or sometimes twice, a day."

　　"No unusual thing for a doctor in practice."

　　"But Armstrong is not really a doctor in practice. He is alecturer and a consultant, but he does not care for generalpractice, which distracts him from his literary work. Why, then,does he make these long journeys, which must be exceedingly irksome tohim, and who is it that he visits?"

　　"His coachman-"

　　"My dear Watson, can you doubt that it was to him that I firstapplied? I do not know whether it came from his own innate depravityor from the promptings of his master, but he was rude enough to seta dog at me. Neither dog nor man liked the look of my stick,however, and the matter fell through. Relations were strained afterthat, and further inquiries out of the question. All that I havelearned I got from a friendly native in the yard of our own inn. Itwas he who told me of the doctor's habits and of his daily journey. Atthat instant, to give point to his words, the carriage came round tothe door."

　　"Could you not follow it?"

　　"Excellent, Watson! You are scintillating this evening. The idea didcross my mind. There is, as you may have observed, a bicycle shop nextto our inn. Into this I rushed, engaged a bicycle, and was able to getstarted before the carriage was quite out of sight. I rapidly overtookit, and then, keeping at a discreet distance of a hundred yards or so,I followed its lights until we were clear of the town. We had got wellout on the country road, when a somewhat mortifying incident occurred.The carriage stopped, the doctor alighted, walked swiftly back towhere I had also halted, and told me in an excellent sardonicfashion that he feared the road was narrow, and that he hoped hiscarriage did not impede the passage of my bicycle. Nothing couldhave been more admirable than his way of putting it. I at once rodepast the carriage, and, keeping to the main road, I went on for afew miles, and then halted in a convenient place to see if thecarriage passed. There was no sign of it, however, and so it becameevident that it had turned down one of several side roads which Ihad observed. I rode back, but again saw nothing of the carriage,and now, as you perceive, it has returned after me. Of course, I hadat the outset no particular reason to connect these journeys withthe disappearance of Godfrey Staunton, and was only inclined toinvestigate them on the general grounds that everything which concernsDr. Armstrong is at present of interest to us, but, now that I find hekeeps so keen a look-out upon anyone who may follow him on theseexcursions, the affair appears more important, and I shall not besatisfied until I have made the matter clear."

　　"We can follow him to-morrow."

　　"Can we? It is not so easy as you seem to think. You are notfamiliar with Cambridgeshire scenery, are you? It does not lend itselfto concealment. All this country that I passed over to-night is asflat and clean as the palm of your hand, and the man we arefollowing is no fool, as he very clearly showed to-night. I have wiredto Overton to let us know any fresh London developments at thisaddress, and in the meantime we can only concentrate our attentionupon Dr. Armstrong, whose name the obliging young lady at the officeallowed me to read upon the counterfoil of Staunton's urgentmessage. He knows where the young man is- to that I'll swear, and ifhe knows, then it must be our own fault if we cannot manage to knowalso. At present it must be admitted that the odd trick is in hispossession, and, as you are aware, Watson, it is not my habit to leavethe game in that condition."

　　And yet the next day brought us no nearer to the solution of themystery. A note was handed in after breakfast, which Holmes passedacross to me with a smile.

　　SIR [it ran]:

　　I can assure you that you are wasting your time in dogging mymovements. I have, as you discovered last night, a window at theback of my brougham, and if you desire a twenty-mile ride which willlead you to the spot from which you started, you have only to followme. Meanwhile, I can inform you that no spying upon me can in anyway help Mr. Godfrey Staunton, and I am convinced that the bestservice you can do to that gentleman is to return at once to Londonand to report to your employer that you are unable to trace him.Your time in Cambridge will certainly be wasted.

　　Yours faithfully,

　　LESLIE ARMSTRONG.

　　"An outspoken, honest antagonist is the doctor," said Holmes. "Well,well, he excites my curiosity, and I must really know before I leavehim."

　　"His carriage is at his door now," said I."There he is stepping intoit. I saw him glance up at our window as he did so. Suppose I try myluck upon the bicycle?"

　　"No, no, my dear Watson! With all respect for your natural acumen, Ido not think that you are quite a match for the worthy doctor. I thinkthat possibly I can attain our end by some independent explorations ofmy own. I am afraid that I must leave you to your own devices, asthe appearance of two inquiring strangers upon a sleepy countrysidemight excite more gossip than I care for. No doubt you will findsome sights to amuse you in this venerable city, and I hope to bringback a more favourable report to you before evening."

　　Once more, however, my friend was destined to be disappointed. Hecame back at night weary and unsuccessful.

　　"I have had a blank day, Watson. Having got the doctor's generaldirection, I spent the day in visiting all the villages upon that sideof Cambridge, and comparing notes with publicans and other localnews agencies. I have covered some ground. Chesterton, Histon,Waterbeach, and Oakington have each been explored, and have eachproved disappointing. The daily appearance of a brougham and paircould hardly have been overlooked in such Sleepy Hollows. The doctorhas scored once more. Is there a telegram for me?"

　　"Yes, I opened it. Here it is:

　　"Ask for Pompey from Jeremy Dixon, Trinity College.

　　I don't understand it."

　　"Oh, it is clear enough. It is from our friend Overton, and is inanswer to a question from me. I'll just send round a note to Mr.Jeremy Dixon, and then I have no doubt that our luck will turn. By theway, is there any news of the match?"

　　"Yes, the local evening paper has an excellent account in its lastedition. Oxford won by a goal and two tries. The last sentences of thedescription say:

　　"The defeat of the Light Blues may be entirely attributed to theunfortunate absence of the crack International, Godfrey Staunton,whose want was felt at every instant of the game. The lack ofcombination in the three-quarter line and their weakness both inattack and defence more than neutralized the efforts of a heavy andhard-working pack."

　　"Then our friend Overton's forebodings have been justified," saidHolmes. "Personally I am in agreement with Dr. Armstrong, and footballdoes not come within my horizon. Early to bed to-night, Watson, forI foresee that to-morrow may be an eventful day."

　　I was horrified by my first glimpse of Holmes next morning, for hesat by the fire holding his tiny hypodermic syringe. I associated thatinstrument with the single weakness of his nature, and I feared theworst when I saw it glittering in his hand. He laughed at myexpression of dismay and laid it upon the table.

　　"No, no, my dear fellow, there is no cause for alarm. It is not uponthis occasion the instrument of evil, but it will rather prove to bethe key which will unlock our mystery. On this syringe I base all myhopes. I have just returned from a small scouting expedition, andeverything is favourable. Eat a good breakfast, Watson, for Ipropose to get upon Dr. Armstrong's trail to-day, and once on it Iwill not stop for rest or food until I run him to his burrow.""In that case," said I, "we had best carry our breakfast with us,for he is making an early start. His carriage is at the door.""Never mind. Let him go. He will be clever if he can drive where Icannot follow him. When you have finished, come downstairs with me,and I will introduce you to a detective who is a very eminentspecialist in the work that lies before us."

　　When we descended I followed Holmes into the stable yard, where heopened the door of a loose-box and led out a squat, lop-eared,white-and-tan dog, something between a beagle and a foxhound."Let me introduce you to Pompey," said he. "Pompey is the pride ofthe local draghounds- no very great flier, as his build will show, buta staunch hound on a scent. Well, Pompey, you may not be fast, but Iexpect you will be too fast for a couple of middle-aged Londongentlemen, so I will take the liberty of fastening this leatherleash to your collar. Now, boy, come along, and show what you can do."He led him across to the doctor's door. The dog sniffed round for aninstant, and then with a shrill whine of excitement started off downthe street, tugging at his leash in his efforts to go faster. Inhalf an hour, we were clear of the town and hastening down a countryroad.

　　"What have you done, Holmes?" I asked.

　　"A threadbare and venerable device, but useful upon occasion. Iwalked into the doctor's yard this morning, and shot my syringe fullof aniseed over the hind wheel. A draghound will follow aniseed fromhere to John o' Groat's, and our friend, Armstrong, would have todrive through the Cam before he would shake Pompey off his trail.Oh, the cunning rascal! This is how he gave me the slip the othernight."

　　The dog had suddenly turned out of the main road into agrass-grown lane. Half a mile farther this opened into another broadroad, and the trail turned hard to the right in the direction of thetown, which we had just quitted. The road took a sweep to the south ofthe town, and continued in the opposite direction to that in whichwe started.

　　"This detour has been entirely for our benefit, then?" saidHolmes. "No wonder that my inquiries among those villagers led tonothing. The doctor has certainly played the game for all it is worth,and one would like to know the reason for such elaborate deception.This should be the village of Trumpington to the right of us. And,by Jove! here is the brougham coming round the corner. Quick,Watson- quick, or we are done!"

　　He sprang through a gate into a field, dragging the reluctant Pompeyafter him. We had hardly got under the shelter of the hedge when thecarriage rattled past. I caught a glimpse of Dr. Armstrong within, hisshoulders bowed, his head sunk on his hands, the very image ofdistress. I could tell by my companion's graver face that he alsohad seen.

　　"I fear there is some dark ending to our quest," said he. "It cannotbe long before we know it. Come, Pompey! Ah, it is the cottage inthe field!"

　　There could be no doubt that we had reached the end of ourjourney. Pompey ran about and whined eagerly outside the gate, wherethe marks of the brougham's wheels were still to be seen. A footpathled across to the lonely cottage. Holmes tied the dog to the hedge,and we hastened onward. My friend knocked at the little rustic door,and knocked again without response. And yet the cottage was notdeserted, for a low sound came to our ears- a kind of drone ofmisery and despair which was indescribably melancholy. Holmes pausedirresolute, and then he glanced back at the road which he had justtraversed. A brougham was coming down it, and there could be nomistaking those gray horses.

　　"By Jove, the doctor is coming back!" cried Holmes. "That settlesit. We are bound to see what it means before he comes."He opened the door, and we stepped into the hall. The droningsound swelled louder upon our ears until it became one long, deep wailof distress. It came from upstairs. Holmes darted up, and I followedhim. He pushed open a half-closed door, and we both stood appalledat the sight before us.

　　A woman, young and beautiful, was lying dead upon the bed. Hercalm pale face, with dim, wide-opened blue eyes, looked upward fromamid a great tangle of golden hair. At the foot of the bed, halfsitting, half kneeling, his face buried in the clothes, was a youngman, whose frame was racked by his sobs. So absorbed was he by hisbitter grief, that he never looked up until Holmes's hand was on hisshoulder.

　　"Are you Mr. Godfrey Staunton?"

　　"Yes, yes, I am- but you are too late. She is dead."

　　The man was so dazed that he could not be made to understand that wewere anything but doctors who had been sent to his assistance.Holmes was endeavouring to utter a few words of consolation and toexplain the alarm which had been caused to his friends by his suddendisappearance when there was a step upon the stairs, and there was theheavy, stern, questioning face of Dr. Armstrong at the door."So, gentlemen," said he, "you have attained your end and havecertainly chosen a particularly delicate moment for your intrusion.I would not brawl in the presence of death, but I can assure youthat if I were a younger man your monstrous conduct would not passwith impunity."

　　"Excuse me, Dr. Armstrong, I think we are a little at

　　cross-purposes," said my friend, with dignity. "If you could stepdownstairs with us, we may each be able to give some light to theother upon this miserable affair."

　　A minute later, the grim doctor and ourselves were in thesitting-room below.

　　"Well, sir?" said he.

　　"I wish you to understand, in the first place, that I am notemployed by Lord Mount-James, and that my sympathies in this matterare entirely against that nobleman. When a man is lost it is my dutyto ascertain his fate, but having done so the matter ends so far asI am concerned, and so long as there is nothing criminal I am muchmore anxious to hush up private scandals than to give thempublicity. If, as I imagine, there is no breach of the law in thismatter, you can absolutely depend upon my discretion and mycooperation in keeping the facts out of the papers."

　　Dr. Armstrong took a quick step forward and wrung Holmes by thehand.

　　"You are a good fellow," said he. "I had misjudged you. I thankheaven that my compunction at leaving poor Staunton all alone inthis plight caused me to turn my carriage back and so to make youracquaintance. Knowing as much as you do, the situation is veryeasily explained. A year ago Godfrey Staunton lodged in London for atime and became passionately attached to his landlady's daughter, whomhe married. She was as good as she was beautiful and as intelligent asshe was good. No man need be ashamed of such a wife. But Godfrey wasthe heir to this crabbed old nobleman, and it was quite certain thatthe news of his marriage would have been the end of his inheritance. Iknew the lad well, and I loved him for his many excellent qualities. Idid all I could to help him to keep things straight. We did our verybest to keep the thing from everyone, for, when once such a whispergets about, it is not long before everyone has heard it. Thanks tothis lonely cottage and his own discretion, Godfrey has up to nowsucceeded. Their secret was known to no one save to me and to oneexcellent servant, who has at present gone for assistance toTrumpington. But at last there came a terrible blow in the shape ofdangerous illness to his wife. It was consumption of the most virulentkind. The poor boy was half crazed with grief, and yet he had to go toLondon to play this match, for he could not get out of it withoutexplanations which would expose his secret. I tried to cheer him up bywire, and he sent me one in reply, imploring me to do all I could.This was the telegram which you appear in some inexplicable way tohave seen. I did not tell him how urgent the danger was, for I knewthat he could do no good here, but I sent the truth to the girl'sfather, and he very injudiciously communicated it to Godfrey. Theresult was that he came straight away in a state bordering onfrenzy, and has remained in the same state, kneeling at the end of herbed, until this morning death put an end to her sufferings. That isall, Mr. Holmes, and I am sure that I can rely upon your discretionand that of your friend."

　　Holmes grasped the doctor's hand.

　　"Come, Watson," said he, and we passed from that house of grief intothe pale sunlight of the winter day.

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1892

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE NOBLE BACHELOR

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　The Lord St. Simon marriage, and its curious termination, havelong ceased to be a subject of interest in those exalted circles inwhich the unfortunate bridegroom moves. Fresh scandals have eclipsedit, and their more piquant details have drawn the gossips away fromthis four-year-old drama. As I have reason to believe, however, thatthe full facts have never been revealed to the general public, andas my friend Sherlock Holmes had a considerable share in clearingthe matter up, I feel that no memoir of him would be completewithout some little sketch of this remarkable episode.

　　It was a few weeks before my own marriage, during the days when Iwas still sharing rooms with Holmes in Baker Street, that he came homefrom an afternoon stroll to find a letter on the table waiting forhim. I had remained indoors all day, for the weather had taken asudden turn to rain, with high autumnal winds, and the Jezail bulletwhich I had brought back in one of my limbs as a relic of my Afghancampaign throbbed with dull persistence. With my body in oneeasy-chair and my legs upon another, I had surrounded myself with acloud of newspapers until at last, saturated with the news of the day,I tossed them all aside and lay listless, watching the huge crestand monogram upon the envelope upon the table and wondering lazily whomy friend's noble correspondent could be.

　　"Here is a very fashionable epistle," I remarked as be entered."Your morning letters, if I remember right, were from a fish-mongerand a tide-waiter."

　　"Yes, my correspondence has certainly the charm of variety," heanswered, smiling, "and the humbler are usually the moreinteresting. This looks like one of those unwelcome social summonseswhich call upon a man either to be bored or to lie."

　　He broke the seal and glanced over the contents.

　　"Oh, come, it may prove to be something of interest, after all.""Not social, then?"

　　"No, distinctly professional."

　　"And from a noble client?"

　　"One of the highest in England."

　　"My dear fellow, I congratulate you."

　　"I assure you, Watson, without affectation, that the status of myclient is a matter of less moment to me than the interest of his case.It is just possible, however, that may not be wanting in this newinvestigation. You have been reading the papers diligently of late,have you not?"

　　"It looks like it," said I ruefully, pointing to a huge bundle inthe corner. "I have had nothing else to do."

　　"It is fortunate, for you will perhaps be able to post me up. I readnothing except the criminal news and the agony column. The latter isalways instructive. But if you have followed recent events soclosely you must have read about Lord St. Simon and his wedding?""Oh, yes, with the deepest interest."

　　"That is well. The letter which I hold in my hand is from Lord St.Simon. I will read it to you, and in return you must turn over thesepapers and let me have whatever bears upon the matter. This is what hesays:

　　"MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES:

　　"Lord Backwater tells me that I may place implicit reliance uponyour judgment and discretion. I have determined, therefore, to canupon you and to consult you in reference to the very painful eventwhich has occurred in connection with my wedding. Mr. Lestrade, ofScotland Yard, is acting already in the matter, but he assures me thathe sees no objection to your cooperation, and that he even thinks thatit might be of some assistance. I will call at four o'clock in theafternoon, and, should you have any other engagement at that time, Ihope that you will postpone it, as this matter is of paramountimportance."

　　"Yours faithfully,

　　"ST. SIMON.

　　"It is dated from Grosvenor Mansions, written with a quill pen,and the noble lord has had the misfortune to get a smear of ink uponthe outer side of his right little finger," remarked Holmes as hefolded up the epistle.

　　"He says four o'clock. It is three now. He will be here in an hour.""Then I have just time, with your assistance, to get clear uponthe subject. Turn over those papers and arrange the extracts intheir order of time, while I take a glance as to who our client is."He picked a red-covered volume from a line of books of referencebeside the mantelpiece. "Here he is," said he, sitting down andflattening it out upon his knee. "Lord Robert Walsingham de Vere St.Simon, second son of the Duke of Balmoral. Hum! Arms: Azure, threecaltrops in chief in chief over a fess sable. Born in 1846. He'sforty-one years of age, which is mature for marriage. WasUnder-Secretary for the colonies in a late administration. The Duke,his father was at one time Secretary for Foreign Affairs. They inheritPlantagenet blood by direct descent, and Tudor on the distaff side.Ha! Well, there is nothing very instructive in all this. I thinkthat I must turn to you, Watson, for something more solid.""I have very little difficulty in finding what I want" said I,"for the facts are quite recent, and the matter struck me asremarkable. I feared to refer them to you, however, as I knew that youhad an inquiry on hand and that you disliked the intrusion of othermatters."

　　"Oh, you mean the little problem of the Grosvenor Square furniturevan. That is quite cleared up now-though, indeed, it was obviousfrom the first. Pray give me the results of your newspaperselections."

　　"Here is the first notice which I can find. It is in the personalcolumn of the Morning Post, and dates, as you see, some weeks back:"A marriage has been arranged [it says] and will, if rumour iscorrect, very shortly take place, between Lord Robert St. Simon,second son of the Duke of Balmoral, and Miss Hatty Doran, the onlydaughter of Aloysius Doran, Esq., of San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.That is all."

　　"Terse and to the point," remarked Holmes, stretching his long, thinlegs towards the fire.

　　"There was a paragraph amplifying this in one of the societypapers of the same week. Ah, here it is:

　　"There will soon be a call for protection in the marriage market,for the present free-trade principle appears to tell heavily againstour home product. One by one the management of the noble houses ofGreat Britain is passing into the hands of our fair cousins fromacross the Atlantic. An important addition has been made during thelast week to the list of the prizes which have been home away by thesecharming invaders. Lord St. Simon, who has shown himself for overtwenty years proof against the little god's arrows, has now definitelyannounced his approaching marriage with Miss Hatty Doran, thefascinating daughter of a California millionaire. Miss Doran, whosegraceful figure and striking face attracted much attention at theWestbury House festivities, is an only child, and it is currentlyreported that her dowry will run to considerably over the six figures,with expectancies for the future. As it is an open secret that theDuke of Balmoral has been compelled to sell his pictures within thelast few years, and as Lord St. Simon has no property of his ownsave the small estate of Birchmoor, it is obvious that the Californianheiress is not the only gainer by an alliance which will enable her tomake the easy and common transition from a Republican lady to aBritish peeress."

　　"Anything else?" asked Holmes, yawning.

　　"Oh, yes; plenty. Then there is another note in the Morning Postto say that the marriage would be an absolutely quiet one, that itwould be at St. George's, Hanover Square, that only half a dozenintimate friends would be invited, and that the party would returnto the furnished house at Lancaster Gate which has been taken by Mr.Aloysius Doran. Two days later-that is, on Wednesday last there is acurt announcement that the wedding had taken place, and that thehoneymoon would be passed at Lord Backwater's place, near Petersfield.Those are all the notices which appeared before the disappearance ofthe bride."

　　"Before the what?" asked Holmes with a start.

　　"The vanishing of the lady."

　　"When did she vanish then?"

　　"At the wedding breakfast."

　　"Indeed. This is more interesting than it promised to be; quitedramatic, in fact."

　　"Yes; it struck me as being a little out of the common.""They often vanish before the ceremony, and occasionally duringthe honeymoon; but I cannot call to mind anything quite so prompt asthis. Pray let me have the details."

　　"I warn you that they are very incomplete."

　　"Perhaps we may make them less so."

　　"Such as they are, they are set forth in a single article of amorning paper of yesterday, which I will read to you. It is headed,'Singular Occurrence at a Fashionable Wedding':

　　"The family of Lord Robert St. Simon has been thrown into thegreatest consternation by the strange and painful episodes whichhave taken place in connection with his wedding. The ceremony, asshortly announced in the papers of yesterday, occurred on the previousmorning; but it is only now that it has been possible to confirm thestrange rumours which have been so persistently floating about. Inspite of the attempts of the friends to hush the matter up, so muchpublic attention has now been drawn to it that no good purpose canbe served by affecting to disregard what is a common subject forconversation.

　　"The ceremony, which was performed at St. George's, HanoverSquare, was a very quiet one, no one being present save the fatherof the bride, Mr. Aloysius Doran, the Duchess of Balmoral, LordBackwater, Lord Eustace, and Lady Clara St. Simon (the younger brotherand sister of the bridegroom), and Lady Alicia Whittington. Thewhole party proceeded afterwards to the house of Mr. Aloysius Doran,at Lancaster Gate, where breakfast had been prepared. It appearsthat some little trouble was caused by a woman, whose name has notbeen ascertained, who endeavoured to force her way into the houseafter the bridal party, alleging that she had some claim upon Lord St.Simon. It was only after a painful and prolonged scene that she wasejected by the butler and the footman. The bride, who hadfortunately entered the house before this unpleasant interruption, hadsat down to breakfast with the rest, when she complained of a suddenindisposition and retired to her room. Her prolonged absence havingcaused some comment, her father followed her, but learned from hermaid that she had only come up to her chamber for an instant, caughtup an ulster and bonnet, and hurried down to the passage. One of thefootmen declared that he had seen a lady leave the house thusapparelled, but had refused to credit that it was his mistress,believing her to be with the company. On ascertaining that hisdaughter had disappeared, Mr. Aloysius Doran, in conjunction withthe bridegroom, instantly put themselves in communication with thepolice, and very energetic inquiries are being made, which willprobably result in a speedy clearing up of this very singularbusiness. Up to a late hour last night, however, nothing hadtranspired as to the whereabouts of the missing lady. There arerumours of foul play in the matter, and it is said that the policehave caused the arrest of the woman who had caused the originaldisturbance, in the belief that, from jealousy or some other motive,she may have been concerned in the strange disappearance of thebride."

　　"And is that all?"

　　"Only one little item in another of the morning papers, but it isa suggestive one."

　　"And it is-"

　　"That Miss Flora Millar, the lady who had caused the disturbance,has actually been arrested. It appears that she was formerly adanseuse at the Allegro, and that she has known the bridegroom forsome years. There are no further particulars, and the whole case is inyour hands now-so far as it has been set forth in the public press.""And an exceedingly interesting case it appears to be. I would nothave missed it for worlds. But there is a ring at the bell, Watson,and as the clock makes it a few minutes after four, I have no doubtthat this will prove to be our noble client. Do not dream of going,Watson, for I very much prefer having a witness, if only as a check tomy own memory."

　　"Lord Robert St. Simon," announced our page-boy, throwing open thedoor. A gentleman entered, with a pleasant, cultured face,high-nosed and pale, with something perhaps of petulance about themouth, and with the steady, well-opened eye of a man whose pleasantlot it had ever been to command and to be obeyed. His manner wasbrisk, and yet his general appearance gave an undue impression of age,for he had a slight forward stoop and a little bend of the knees as hewalked. His hair, too, as he swept off his very curly-brimmed hatwas grizzled round the edges and thin upon the top. As to his dress,it was careful to the verge of foppishness, with high collar, blackfrock-coat, white waistcoat, yellow gloves, patent leather shoes,and light-coloured gaiters. He advanced slowly into the room,turning his head from left to right, and swinging in his right handthe cord which held his golden eyeglasses.

　　"Good-day, Lord St. Simon," said Holmes, rising and bowing. "Praytake the basket-chair. This is my friend and colleague, Dr. Watson.Draw up a little to the fire, and we will talk this matter over.""A most painful matter to me, as you can most readily imagine, Mr.Holmes. I have been cut to the quick. I understand that you havealready managed several delicate cases of this sort, sir, though Ipresume that they were hardly from the same class of society.""No, I am descending."

　　"I beg pardon."

　　"My last client of the sort was a king."

　　"Oh, really! I had no idea. And which king?"

　　"The King of Scandinavia."

　　"What! Had he lost his wife?"

　　"You can understand," said Holmes suavely, "that I extend to theaffairs of my other clients the same secrecy which I promise to you inyours."

　　"Of course! Very right! very right! I'm sure I beg pardon. As tomy own case, I am ready to give you any information which may assistyou in forming an opinion."

　　"Thank you. I have already learned all that is in the public prints,nothing more. I presume that I may take it as correct-this article,for example, as to the disappearance of the bride."

　　Lord St. Simon glanced over it. "Yes, it is correct, as far as itgoes."

　　"But it needs a great deal of supplementing before anyone couldoffer an opinion. I think that I may arrive at my facts mostdirectly by questioning you."

　　"Pray do so."

　　"When did you first meet Miss Hatty Doran?"

　　"In San Francisco, a year ago."

　　"You were travelling in the States?"

　　"Yes."

　　"Did you become engaged then?"

　　"No."

　　"But you were on a friendly footing?"

　　"I was amused by her society, and she could see that I was amused.""Her father is very rich?"

　　"He is said to be the richest man on the Pacific slope.""And how did he make his money?"

　　"In mining. He had nothing a few years ago. Then he struck gold,invested it, and came up by leaps and bounds."

　　"Now, what is your own impression as to the young lady's-your wife'scharacter?"

　　The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared downinto the fire. "You see, Mr. Holmes," said he, "my wife was twentybefore her father became a rich man. During that time she ran freein a mining camp and wandered through woods or mountains, so thather education has come from Nature rather than from theschoolmaster. She is what we call in England a tomboy, with a strongnature, wild and free, unfettered by any sort of traditions. She isimpetuous, volcanic, I was about to say. She is swift in making up hermind and fearless in carrying out her resolutions. On the otherhand, I would not have given her the name which I have the honour tobear"-he gave a little stately cough-"had not I thought her to be atbottom a noble woman. I believe that she is capable of heroicself-sacrifice and that anything dishonourable would be repugnant toher."

　　"Have you her photograph?"

　　"I brought this with me." He opened a locket and showed us thefull face of a very lovely woman. It was not a photograph but an ivoryminiature, and the artist had brought out the full effect of thelustrous black hair, the large dark eyes, and the exquisite mouth.Holmes gazed long and earnestly at it. Then he closed the locket andhanded it back to Lord St. Simon.

　　"The young lady came to London, then, and you renewed youracquaintance?"

　　"Yes, her father brought her over for this last London season. I mether several times, became engaged to her, and have now married her.""She brought, I understand, a considerable dowry?"

　　"A fair dowry. Not more than is usual in my family."

　　"And this, of course, remains to you, since the marriage is a faitaccompli?"

　　"I really have made no inquiries on the subject."

　　"Very naturally not. Did you see Miss Doran on the day before thewedding?"

　　"Yes."

　　"Was she in good spirits?"

　　"Never better. She kept talking of what we should do in our futurelives."

　　"Indeed That is very interesting. And on the morning of thewedding?"

　　"She was as bright as possible-at least until after the ceremony.""And did you observe any change in her then?"

　　"Well, to tell the truth, I saw then the first signs that I had everseen that her temper was just a little sharp. The incident, however,was too trivial to relate and can have no possible bearing upon thecase."

　　"Pray let us have it, for all that."

　　"Oh, it is childish. She dropped her bouquet as we went towardsthe vestry. She was passing the front pew at the time, and it fellover into the pew. There was a moment's delay, but the gentleman inthe pew handed it up to her again, and it did not appear to be theworse for the fall. Yet when I spoke to her of the matter, sheanswered me abruptly, and in the carriage, on our way home, she seemedabsurdly agitated over this trifling cause."

　　"Indeed You say that there was a gentleman in the pew. Some of thegeneral public were present, then?"

　　"Oh, yes. It is impossible to exclude them when the church is open.""This gentleman was not one of your wife's friends?"

　　"No, no, I call him a gentleman by courtesy, but he was quite acommon looking person. I hardly noticed his appearance. But really Ithink that we are wandering rather far from the point.""Lady St. Simon, then, returned from the wedding in a lesscheerful frame of mind than she had gone to it. What did she do onreentering her father's house?"

　　"I saw her in conversation with her maid."

　　"And who is her maid?"

　　"Alice is her name. She is an American and came from California withher."

　　"A confidential servant?"

　　"A little too much so. It seemed to me that her mistress allowed herto take great liberties. Still, of course, in America they look uponthese things in a different way.

　　"How long did she speak to this Alice?"

　　"Oh, a few minutes. I had something else to think of."

　　"You did not overhear what they said?"

　　"Lady St. Simon said something about 'jumping a claim.' She wasaccustomed to use slang of the kind. I have no idea what she meant.""American slang is very expressive sometimes. And what did your wifedo when she finished speaking to her maid?"

　　"She walked into the breakfast-room."

　　"On your arm?"

　　"No, alone. She was very independent in little matters like that.Then, after we had sat down for ten minutes or so, she rose hurriedly,muttered some words of apology, and left the room. She never cameback."

　　"But this maid, Alice, as I understand, deposes that she went to herroom, covered her bride's dress with a long ulster, put on a bonnet,and went out."

　　"Quite so. And she was afterwards seen walking into Hyde Park incompany with Flora Millar, a woman who is now in custody, and whohad already made a disturbance at Mr. Doran's house that morning.""Ah, yes. I should like a few particulars as to this young lady, andyour relations to her."

　　Lord St. Simon shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows. "Wehave been on a friendly footing for some years-I may say on a veryfriendly footing. She used to be at the Allegro. I have not treatedher ungenerously, and she had no just cause of complaint against me,but you know what women are, Mr. Holmes. Flora was a dear littlething, but exceedingly hot-headed and devotedly attached to me. Shewrote me dreadful letters when she heard I was about to be married,and, to tell the truth, the reason why I had the marriage celebratedso quietly was that I feared lest there might be a scandal in thechurch. She came to Mr. Doran's door just after we returned, and sheendeavoured to push her way in, uttering very abusive expressions mywife, and even threatening her, but I had foreseen the possibilityof something of the sort, and I had two police fellows there inprivate clothes, who soon pushed her out again. She was quiet when shesaw that there was no good in making a row."

　　"Did your wife hear all this?"

　　"No, thank goodness, she did not."

　　"And she was seen walking with this very woman afterwards?""Yes. That is what Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, looks upon asso serious. It is thought that Flora decoyed my wife out and laid someterrible trap for her."

　　"Well, it is a possible supposition."

　　"You think so, too?"

　　"I did not say a probable one. But you do not yourself look uponthis as likely?"

　　"I do not think Flora would hurt a fly."

　　"Still, jealousy is a strange transformer of characters. Pray whatis your own theory as to what took place?"

　　"Well, really, I came to seek a theory, not to propound one. Ihave given you all the facts. Since you ask me, however, I may saythat it has occurred to me as possible that the excitement of thisaffair, the consciousness that she had made so immense a socialstride, had the effect of causing some little nervous disturbance inmy wife."

　　"In short, that she had become suddenly deranged?"

　　"Well, really, when I consider that she has turned her back-I willnot say upon me, but upon so much that many have aspired to withoutsuccess-I can hardly explain it in any other fashion."

　　"Well, certainly that is also a conceivable hypothesis," saidHolmes, smiling. "And now, Lord St. Simon, I think that I havenearly all my data. May I ask whether you were seated at thebreakfast-table so that you could see out of the window?""We could see the other side of the road and the Park.""Quite so. Then I do not think that I need to detain you longer. Ishall communicate with you."

　　"Should you be fortunate enough to solve this problem," said ourclient, rising.

　　"I have solved it."

　　"Eh? What was that?"

　　"I say that I have solved it."

　　"Where, then, is my wife?"

　　"That is a detail which I shall speedily supply."

　　Lord St. Simon shook his head. "I am afraid that it will takewiser heads than yours or mine," he remarked, and bowing in a stately,old-fashioned manner he departed.

　　"It is very good of Lord St. Simon to honour my head by putting iton a level with his own," said Sherlock Holmes, laughing. "I thinkthat i shall have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all thiscross-questioning. I had formed my conclusions as to the case beforeour client came into the room."

　　"My dear Holmes!"

　　"I have notes of several similar cases, though none, as I remarkedbefore, which were quite as prompt. My whole examination served toturn my conjecture into a certainty. Circumstantial evidence isoccasionally very convincing, as when you find a trout in the milk, toquote Thoreau's example."

　　"But I have heard all that you have heard."

　　"Without, however, the knowledge of prexisting cases which serves meso well. There was a parallel instance in Aberdeen some years back,and something on very much the same lines at Munich the year after theFranco-Prussian War. It is one of these cases-but, hello, here isLestrade! Good-afternoon, Lestrade! You will find an extra tumblerupon the sideboard, and there are cigars in the box."

　　The official detective was attired in a pea-jacket and cravatwhich gave him a decidedly nautical appearance, and he carried a blackcanvas bag in his hand. With a short greeting he seated himself andlit the cigar which had been offered to him.

　　"What's up, then?" asked Holmes with a twinkle in his eye. "You lookdissatisfied."

　　"And I feel dissatisfied. It is this infernal St. Simon marriagecase. I can make neither head nor tail of the business.""Really! You surprise me."

　　"Who ever heard of such a mixed affair? Every clue seems to slipthrough my fingers. I have been at work upon it all day.""And very wet it seems to have made you," said Holmes, laying hishand upon the arm of the pea-jacket.

　　"Yes, I have been dragging the Serpentine."

　　"In heaven's name, what for?"

　　"In search of the body of lady St. Simon."

　　Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily."Have you dragged the basin of Trafalgar Square fountain?" he asked."Why? What do you mean?"

　　"Because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady inthe one as in the other."

　　Lestrade shot an angry glance at my companion. "I suppose you knowall about it" he snarled.

　　"Well, I have only just heard the facts, but my mind is made up.""Oh, indeed! Then you think that the Serpentine plays no part in thematter?"

　　"I think it very unlikely."

　　"Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found thisin it?" He opened his bag as he spoke, and tumbled onto the floor awedding-dress of watered silk, a pair of white satin shoes, and abride's wreath and veil, all discoloured and soaked in water. "There,"said he, putting a new wedding-ring upon the top of the pile. "Thereis a little nut for you to crack, Master Holmes."

　　"Oh, indeed!" said my friend, blowing blue rings into the air."You dragged them from the Serpentine?"

　　"No. They were found floating near the margin by a park-keeper. Theyhave been identified as her clothes, and it seemed to me that if theclothes were there the body would not be far off."

　　"By the same brilliant reasoning, every man's body is to be found inthe neighbourhood of his wardrobe. And pray what did you hope toarrive at through this?"

　　"At some evidence implicating Flora Millar in the disappearance.""I am afraid that you will find it difficult."

　　"Are you, indeed, now?" cried Lestrade with some bitterness. I amafraid, Holmes, that you are not very practical with your deductionsand your inferences. You have made two blunders in as many minutes.This dress does implicate Miss Flora Millar."

　　"And how?"

　　"In the dress is a pocket. In the pocket is a card-case. In thecard-case is a note. And here is the very note." He slapped it downupon the table in front of him. "Listen to this:

　　"You will see me when all is ready. Come at once.

　　'F.H.M.'

　　Now my theory all along has been that Lady St. Simon was decoyedaway by Flora Millar, and that she, with confederates, no doubt, wasresponsible for her disappearance. Here, signed with her initials,is the very note which was no doubt quietly slipped into her hand atthe door and which lured her within their reach."

　　"Very good, Lestrade," said Holmes, laughing. "You really are veryfine indeed. Let me see it." He took up the paper in a listless way,but his attention instantly became riveted, and he gave a little cryof satisfaction. "This is indeed important," said he.

　　"Ha! you find it so?"

　　"Extremely so. I congratulate you warmly."

　　Lestrade rose in his triumph and bent his head to look. "Why," heshrieked, "you're looking at the wrong side!"

　　"On the contrary, this is the right side."

　　"The right side? You're mad! Here is the note written in pencil overhere."

　　"And over here is what appears to be the fragment of a hotel bill,which interests me deeply."

　　"There's nothing in it. I looked at it before," said Lestrade."Oct. 4th, rooms 8s., breakfast 2s. 6d., cocktail 1s., lunch 2S.6d., glass sherry, 8d."

　　"I see nothing in that."

　　"Very likely not. It is most important, all the same. As to thenote, it is important also, or at least the initials are, so Icongratulate you again."

　　"I've wasted time enough," said Lestrade, rising. "I believe in hardwork and not in sitting by the fire spinning fine theories.Good-day, Mr. Holmes, and we shall see which gets to the bottom of thematter first." He gathered up the garments, thrust them into thebag, and made for the door.

　　"Just one hint to you, Lastrade," drawled Holmes before his rivalvanished; "I will tell you the true solution of the matter. Lady St.Simon is a myth. There is not, and there never has been, any suchperson."

　　Lestrade looked sadly at my companion. Then he turned to me,tapped his forehead three times, shook his head solemnly, andhurried away.

　　He had hardly shut the door behind him when Holmes rose to put onhis overcoat. "There is something in what the fellow says aboutoutdoor work," he remarked, "so I think, Watson, that I must leave youto your papers for a little."

　　It was after five o'clock when Sherlock Holmes left me, but I had notime to be lonely, for within an hour there arrived a confectionersman with a very large flat box. This he unpacked with the help of ayouth whom he had brought with him, and presently, to my very greatastonishment, a quite epicurean little cold supper began to be laidout upon our humble lodging-house mahogany. There were a couple ofbrace of cold woodcock, a pheasant, a pate de foie gras pie with agroup of ancient and cobwebby bottles. Having laid out all theseluxuries, my two visitors vanished away, like the genii of the ArabianNights, with no explanation save that the things had been paid for andwere ordered to this address.

　　Just before nine o'clock Sherlock Holmes stepped briskly into theroom. His features were gravely set but there was a light in his eyewhich made me think that he had not been disappointed in hisconclusions.

　　"They have laid the supper, then," he said, rubbing his hands."You seem to expect company. They have laid for five."

　　"Yes, I fancy we may have some company dropping in," said he. "Iam surprised that Lord St. Simon has not already arrived. Ha! Ifancy that I hear his step now upon the stairs.'

　　It was indeed our visitor of the afternoon who came bustling in,dangling his glasses more vigorously than ever, and with a veryperturbed expression upon his aristocratic features.

　　"My messenger reached you, then?" asked Holmes.

　　"Yes, and I confess that the contents startled me beyond measure.Have you good authority for what you say?"

　　"The best possible."

　　Lord St. Simon sank into a chair and passed his hand over hisforehead authority

　　"What will the Duke say," he murmured, "when he hears that one ofthe family has been subjected to such humiliation?"

　　"It is the purest accident. I cannot allow that there is anyhumiliation."

　　"Ah, you look on these things from another standpoint.""I fail to see that anyone is to blame. I can hardly see how thelady could have acted otherwise, though her abrupt method of doingit was undoubtedly to be regretted. Having no mother, she had no oneto advise her at such a crisis."

　　"It was a slight, sir, a public slight," said Lord St. Simon,tapping his fingers upon the table.

　　"You must make allowance for this poor girl, placed in sounprecedented. a position."

　　"I will make no allowance. I am very angry indeed, and I have beenshamefully used."

　　"I think that I heard a ring," said Holmes. "Yes, there are steps onthe landing. If I cannot persuade you to take a lenient view of thematter, Lord St. Simon, I have brought an advocate here who may bemore successful." He opened the door and ushered in a lady andgentleman. "Lord St. Simon," said he, "allow me to introduce you toMr. and Mrs. Francis Hay Moulton. The lady, I think, you havealready met."

　　At the sight of these newcomers our client had sprung from hisseat and stood very erect, with his eyes cast down and his hand thrustinto the breast of his frock-coat, a picture of offended dignity.The lady had taken a quick step forward, but had held out her handto him, but he still refused to raise his eyes. It was as well for hisresolution, perhaps, for her pleading face was one which it was hardto resist.

　　"You're angry, Robert," said she. "Well, I guess you have everycause to be."

　　"Pray make no apology to me," said Lord St. Simon bitterly."Oh, yes, I know that I have treated you real bad and that Ishould have spoken to you before I went; but I was kind of rattled,and from the time when I saw Frank here again I just didn't knowwhat I was doing or saying. I only wonder I didn't fall down and doa faint right there before the altar."

　　"Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend and me to leave theroom while you explain this matter?"

　　"If I may give an opinion," remarked the strange gentleman, "we'vehad just a little too much secrecy over this business already. Formy part, I should like all Europe and America to hear the rights ofit." He was a small, wiry, sunburnt man, clean-shaven, with a sharpface and alert manner.

　　"Then I'll tell our story right away," said the lady. "Frank hereand I met in '84, in McQuire's camp, near the Rockies, where pa wasworking a claim. We were engaged to each other, Frank and I; butthen one day father struck a rich pocket and made a pile, while poorFrank here had a claim that petered out and came to nothing. Thericher pa grew the poorer was Frank; so at last pa wouldn't hear ofour engagement lasting any longer, and he took me away to 'Frisco.Frank wouldn't throw up his hand, though; so he followed me there, andhe saw me without pa knowing anything about it. It would only havemade him mad to know, so we just fixed it all up for ourselves.Frank said that he would go and make his pile, too, and never comeback to claim me until he had as much as pa. So then I promised towait for him to the end of time and pledged myself not to marry anyoneelse while he lived. 'Why shouldn't we be married right away, then,'said he, 'and then I will feel sure of you; and I won't claim to beyour husband until I come back?' Well, we talked it over, and he hadfixed it all up so nicely, with a clergyman all ready in waiting, thatwe just did it right there; and then Frank went off to seek hisfortune, and I went back to pa.

　　"The next I heard of Frank was that he was in Montana, and then hewent prospecting in Arizona, and then I heard of him from NewMexico. After that came a long newspaper story about how a miners'camp had been attacked by Apache Indians, and there was my Frank'sname among the killed. I fainted dead away, and I was very sick formonths after. Pa thought I had a decline and took me to half thedoctors in 'Frisco. Not a word of news came for a year and more, sothat I never doubted that Frank was really dead. Then Lord St. Simoncame to 'Frisco, and we came to London, and a marriage was arranged,and pa was very pleased, but I felt all the time that no man on thisearth would ever take the place in my heart that had been given tomy poor Frank.

　　"Still, if I had married Lord St. Simon, of course I'd have donemy duty by him. We can't command our love, but we can our actions. Iwent to the altar with him with the intention to make him just as gooda wife as it was in me to be. But you may imagine what I felt when,just as I came to the altar rails, I glanced back and saw Frankstanding and looking at me out of the first pew. I thought it washis ghost at first; but when I looked again there he was still, with akind of question in his eyes, as if to ask me whether I were glad orsorry to see him. I wonder I didn't drop. I know that everything wasturning round, and the words of the clergyman were just like thebuzz of a bee in my ear. I didn't know what to do. Should I stop theservice and make a scene in the church? I glanced at him again, and heseemed to know what I was thinking, for he raised his finger to hislips to tell me to be still. Then I saw him scribble on a piece ofpaper, and I knew that he was writing me a note. As I passed his pewon the way out I dropped my bouquet over to him, and he slipped thenote into my hand when he returned me the flowers. It was only aline asking me to join him when he made the sign to me to do so. Ofcourse I never doubted for a moment that my first duty was now to him,and I determined to do just whatever he might direct.

　　"When I got back I told my maid, who had known him in California,and had always been his friend. I ordered her to say nothing, but toget a few things packed and my ulster ready. I know I ought to havespoken to Lord St. Simon, but it was dreadful hard before his motherand all those great people. I just made up my mind to run away andexplain afterwards. I hadn't been at the table ten minutes before Isaw Frank out of the window at the other side of the road. He beckonedto me and then began walking into the Park. I slipped out, put on mythings, and followed him. Some woman came talking something or otherabout Lord St. Simon to me-seemed to me from the little I heard asif he had a little secret of his own before marriage also-but Imanaged to get away from her and soon overtook Frank. We got into acab together, and away we drove to some lodgings he had taken inGordon Square, and that was my true wedding after all those years ofwaiting. Frank had been a prisoner among the Apaches, had escaped,came on to 'Frisco, found that I had given him up for dead and hadgone to England, followed me there, and had come upon me at last onthe very morning of my second wedding."

　　"I saw it in a paper," explained the American. "It gave the name andthe church but not where the lady lived."

　　"Then we had a talk as to what we should do, and Frank was all foropenness, but I was so ashamed of it all that I felt as if I shouldlike to vanish away and never see any of them again-just sending aline to pa, perhaps, to show him that I was alive. It was awful tome to think of all those lords and ladies sitting round thatbreakfast-table and waiting for me to come back. So Frank took mywedding clothes and things and made a bundle of them, so that I shouldnot be traced, and dropped them away somewhere where no one could findthem. It is likely that we should have gone on to Paris to-morrow,only that this good gentleman, Mr. Holmes, came round to us thisevening, though how he found us is more than I can think, and heshowed us very clearly and kindly that I was wrong and that Frankwas right, and that we should be putting ourselves in the wrong ifwe were so secret. Then he offered to give us a chance of talking toLord St. Simon alone, and so we came right away round to his roomsat once. Now, Robert, you have heard it all, and I am very sorry ifI have given you pain, and I hope that you do not think very meanly ofme."

　　Lord St. Simon had by no means relaxed his rigid attitude, but hadlistened with a frowning brow and a compressed lip to this longnarrative.

　　"Excuse me," be said, "but it is not my custom to discuss my mostintimate personal affairs in this public manner."

　　"Then you won't forgive me? You won't shake hands before I go?""Oh, certainly, if it would give you any pleasure." He put out hishand and coldly grasped that which she attended to him."I had hoped," suggested Holmes, "that you would have joined us in afriendly supper."

　　"I think that there you ask a little too much," responded hisLordship. "I may be forced to acquiesce in these recentdevelopments, but I can hardly be expected to make merry over them.I think that with your permission I will now wish you all a verygood-night." He included us all in a sweeping bow and stalked out ofthe room.

　　"Then I trust that you at least will honour me with your company,"said Sherlock Holmes. "It is always a joy to meet an American, Mr.Moulton, for I am one of those who believe that the folly of a monarchand the blundering of a minister in far-gone years will not preventour children from being some day citizens of the same world-widecountry under a flag which shall be a quartering of the Union Jackwith the Stars and Stripes."

　　"The case has been an interesting one," remarked Holmes when ourvisitors had left us, "because it serves to show very clearly howsimple the explanation may be of an affair which at first sightseems to be almost inexplicable. Nothing could be more natural thanthe sequence of events as narrated by this lady, and nothingstranger than the result when viewed, for instance, by Mr. Lestrade,of Scotland Yard."

　　"You were not yourself at fault at all, then?"

　　"From the first, two facts were very obvious to me, the one that thelady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony, the otherthat she had repented of it within a few minutes of returning home.Obviously something had occurred during the morning, then, to causeher to change her mind. What could that something be? She could nothave spoken to anyone when she was out, for she had been in thecompany of the bridegroom. Had she seen someone, then? If she had,it must be someone from America because she had spent so short atime in this country that she could hardly have allowed anyone toacquire so deep an influence over her that the mere sight of him wouldinduce her to change her plans so completely. You see we havealready arrived, by a process of exclusion, at the idea that she mighthave seen an American. Then who could this American be, and why shouldhe possess so much influence over her? It might be a lover; it mightbe a husband. Her young womanhood had, I knew, been spent in roughscenes and under strange conditions. So far I had got before I everheard Lord St. Simon's narrative. When he told us of a man in a pew,of the change in the bride's manner, of so transparent a device forobtaining a note as the dropping of a bouquet, of her resort to herconfidential maid, and of her very significant allusion toclaim-jumping-which in miners' parlance means taking possession ofthat which another person has a prior claim to-the whole situationbecame absolutely clear. She had gone off with a man, and the manwas either a lover or was a previous husband-the chances being infavour of the latter."

　　"And how in the world did you find them?"

　　"It might have been difficult, but friend Lestrade heldinformation in his hands the value of which he did not himself know.The initials were, of course, of the highest importance, but morevaluable still was it to know that within a week he had settled hisbill at one of the most select London hotels."

　　"How did you deduce the select?"

　　"By the select prices. Eight shillings for a bed and eightpencefor a glass of sherry pointed to one of the most expensive hotels.There are not many in London which charge at that rate. In thesecond one which I visited in Northumberland Avenue, I learned by aninspection of the book that Francis H. Moulton, an American gentleman,had left only the day before, and on looking over the entriesagainst him, I came upon the very items which I had seen in theduplicate bill. His letters were to be forwarded to 226 Gordon Square;so thither I travelled, and being fortunate enough to find theloving couple at home, I ventured to give them some paternal adviceand to point out to them that it would be better in every way thatthey should make their position a little clearer both to the generalpublic and to Lord St. Simon in particular. I invited them to meet himhere, and, as you see, I made him keep the appointment.""But with no very good result," I remarked. "His conduct wascertainly not very gracious."

　　"Ah. Watson," said Holmes, smiling, "perhaps you would not be verygracious either, if, after all the trouble of wooing and wedding,you found yourself deprived in an instant of wife and of fortune. Ithink that we may judge Lord St. Simon very mercifully and thank ourstars that we are never likely to find ourselves in the same position.Draw your chair up and hand me my violin, for the only problem we havestill to solve is how to while away these bleak autumnal evenings."-THE END-

　　.

　　1903

　　SHERLOCK HOMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE NORWOOD BUILDER

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE NORWOOD BUILDER

　　"From the point of view of the criminal" said Mr. Sherlock Holmes,"London has become a singularly uninteresting city since the deathof the late lamented Professor Moriarty."

　　"I can hardly think that you would find many decent citizens toagree with you," I answered.

　　"Well, well, I must not be selfish," said he, with a smile, as bepushed back his chair from the breakfast-table. "The community iscertainly the gainer, and no one the loser, save the poorout-of-work specialist, whose occupation has gone. With that man inthe field, one's morning paper presented infinite possibilities. Oftenit was only the smallest trace, Watson, the faintest indication, andyet it was enough to tell me that the great malignant brain was there,as the gentlest tremors of the edges of the web remind one of the foulspider which lurks in the centre. Petty thefts, wanton assaults,purposeless outrage- to the man who held the clue all could beworked into one connected whole. To the scientific student of thehigher criminal world, no capital in Europe offered the advantageswhich London then possessed. But now-" He shrugged his shoulders inhumorous deprecation of the state of things which he had himselfdone so much to produce.

　　At the time of which I speak, Holmes had been back for somemonths, and I at his request had sold my practice and returned toshare the old quarters in Baker Street. A young doctor, namedVerner, had purchased my small Kensington practice, and given withastonishingly little demur the highest price that I ventured to ask-an incident which only explained itself some years later, when I foundthat Verner was a distant relation of Holmes, and that it was myfriend who had really found the money.

　　Our months of partnership had not been so uneventful as he hadstated, for I find, on looking over my notes, that this periodincludes the case of the papers of ex-President Murillo, and alsothe shocking affair of the Dutch steamship Friesland, which sonearly cost us both our lives. His cold and proud nature was alwaysaverse, however, from anything in the shape of public applause, and hebound me in the most stringent terms to say no further word ofhimself, his methods, or his successes- a prohibition which, as I haveexplained, has only now been removed.

　　Mr. Sherlock Holmes was leaning back in his chair after hiswhimsical protest, and was unfolding his morning paper in aleisurely fashion, when our attention was arrested by a tremendousring at the bell, followed immediately by a hollow drumming sound,as if someone were beating on the outer door with his fist. As itopened there came a tumultuous rush into the hall, rapid feetclattered up the stair, and an instant later a wild-eyed and franticyoung man, pale, disheveled, and palpitating, burst into the room.He looked from one to the other of us, and under our gaze of inquiryhe became conscious that some apology was needed for thisunceremonious entry.

　　"I'm sorry, Mr. Holmes," he cried. "You mustn't blame me. I amnearly mad. Mr. Holmes, I am the unhappy John Hector McFarlane."He made the announcement as if the name alone would explain both hisvisit and its manner, but I could see, by my companion'sunresponsive face, that it meant no more to him than to me."Have a cigarette, Mr. McFarlane," said he, pushing his case across."I am sure that, with your symptoms, my friend Dr. Watson here wouldprescribe a sedative. The weather has been so very warm these last fewdays. Now, if you feel a little more composed, I should be glad if youwould sit down in that chair, and tell us very slowly and quietlywho you are, and what it is that you want. You mentioned your name, asif I should recognize it, but I assure you that, beyond the obviousfacts that you are a bachelor, a solicitor, a Freemason, and anasthmatic, I know nothing whatever about you."

　　Familiar as I was with my friend's methods, it was not difficult forme to follow his deductions, and to observe the untidiness ofattire, the sheaf of legal papers, the watch-charm, and thebreathing which had prompted them. Our client, however, stared inamazement.

　　"Yes, I am all that, Mr. Holmes; and, in addition, I am the mostunfortunate man at this moment in London. For heaven's sake, don'tabandon me, Mr. Holmes! If they come to arrest me before I havefinished my story, make them give me time, so that I may tell youthe whole truth. I could go to jail happy if I knew that you wereworking for me outside."

　　"Arrest you!" said Holmes. "This is really most grati- mostinteresting. On what charge do you expect to be arrested?""Upon the charge of murdering Mr. Jonas Oldacre, of Lower Norwood."My companion's expressive face showed a sympathy which was not, I amafraid, entirely unmixed with satisfaction.

　　"Dear me," said he, "it was only this moment at breakfast that I wassaying to my friend, Dr. Watson, that sensational cases haddisappeared out of our papers."

　　Our visitor stretched forward a quivering hand and picked up theDaily Telegraph, which still lay upon Holmes's knee.

　　"If you had looked at it, sir, you would have seen at a glancewhat the errand is on which I have come to you this morning. I feel asif my name and my misfortune must be in every man's mouth." Heturned it over to expose the central page. "Here it is, and withyour permission I will read it to you. Listen to this, Mr. Holmes. Theheadlines are: `Mysterious Affair at Lower Norwood. Disappearance of aWell Known Builder. Suspicion of Murder and Arson. A Clue to theCriminal.' That is the clue which they are already following, Mr.Holmes, and I know that it leads infallibly to me. I have beenfollowed from London Bridge Station, and I am sure that they areonly waiting for the warrant to arrest me. It will break my mother'sheart- it will break her heart!" He wrung his hands in an agony ofapprehension, and swayed backward and forward in his chair.I looked with interest upon this man, who was accused of being theperpetrator of a crime of violence. He was flaxen-haired and handsome,in a washed-out negative fashion, with frightened blue eyes, and aclean-shaven face, with a weak, sensitive mouth. His age may have beenabout twenty-seven, his dress and bearing that of a gentleman. Fromthe pocket of his light summer overcoat protruded the bundle ofindorsed papers which proclaimed his profession.

　　"We must use what time we have," said Holmes "Watson, would you havethe kindness to take the paper and to read the paragraph in question?"Underneath the vigorous headlines which our client had quoted, Iread the following suggestive narrative:

　　"Late last night, or early this morning, an incident occurred atLower Norwood which points, it is feared, to a serious crime. Mr.Jonas Oldacre is a well known resident of that suburb, where he hascarried on his business as a builder for many years. Mr. Oldacre isa bachelor, fifty-two years of age, and lives in Deep Dene House, atthe Sydenham end of the road of that name. He has had the reputationof being a man of eccentric habits, secretive and retiring. For someyears he has practically withdrawn from the business, in which he issaid to have massed considerable wealth. A small timber-yard stillexists, however, at the back of the house, and last night, abouttwelve o'clock, an alarm was given that one of the stacks was on fire.The engines were soon upon the spot, but the dry wood burned withgreat fury, and it was impossible to arrest the conflagration untilthe stack had been entirely consumed. Up to this point the incidentbore the appearance of an ordinary accident, but fresh indicationsseem to point to serious crime. Surprise was expressed at theabsence of the master of the establishment from the scene of the fire,and an inquiry followed, which showed that he had disappeared from thehouse. An examination of his room revealed that the bed had not beenslept in, that a safe which stood in it was open, that a number ofimportant papers were scattered about the room, and finally, thatthere were signs of a murderous struggle, slight traces of blood beingfound within the room, and an oaken walking-stick, which also showedstains of blood upon the handle. It is known that Mr. Jonas Oldacrehad received a late visitor in his bedroom upon that night, and thestick found has been identified as the property of this person, who isa young London solicitor named John Hector McFarlane, junior partnerof Graham and McFarlane, of 426 Gresham Buildings, E.C. The policebelieve that they have evidence in their possession which supplies avery convincing motive for the crime, and altogether it cannot bedoubted that sensational developments will follow.

　　"LATER.- It is rumoured as we go to press that Mr. John HectorMcFarlane has actually been arrested on the charge of the murder ofMr. Jonas Oldacre. It is at least certain that a warrant has beenissued. There have been further and sinister developments in theinvestigation at Norwood. Besides the signs of a struggle in theroom of the unfortunate builder it is now known that the Frenchwindows of his bedroom (which is on the ground floor) were found to beopen, that there were marks as if some bulky object had been draggedacross to the wood-pile, and, finally, it is asserted that charredremains have been found among the charcoal ashes of the fire. Thepolice theory is that a most sensational crime has been committed,that the victim was clubbed to death in his own bedroom, his papersrifled, and his dead body dragged across to the wood-stack, whichwas then ignited so as to hide all traces of the crime. The conduct ofthe criminal investigation has been left in the experienced hands ofInspector Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, who is following up the clueswith his accustomed energy and sagacity."

　　Sherlock Holmes listened with closed eyes and fingertips together tothis remarkable account.

　　"The case has certainly some points of interest," said he, in hislanguid fashion. "May I ask, in the first place, Mr. McFarlane, how itis that you are still at liberty, since there appears to be enoughevidence to justify your arrest?"

　　"I live at Torrington Lodge, Blackheath, with my parents, Mr.Holmes, but last night, having to do business very late with Mr. JonasOldacre, I stayed at an hotel in Norwood, and came to my business fromthere. I knew nothing of this affair until I was in the train, whenI read what you have just heard. I at once saw the horrible dangerof my position, and I hurried to put the case into your hands. Ihave no doubt that I should have been arrested either at my cityoffice or at my home. A man followed me from London Bridge Station,and I have no doubt- Great heaven! what is that?"

　　It was a clang of the bell, followed instantly by heavy steps uponthe stair. A moment later, our old friend Lestrade appeared in thedoorway. Over his shoulder I caught a glimpse of one or twouniformed policemen outside.

　　"Mr. John Hector McFarlane?" said Lestrade.

　　Our unfortunate client rose with a ghastly face.

　　"I arrest you for the wilful murder of Mr. Jonas Oldacre, of LowerNorwood."

　　McFarlane turned to us with a gesture of despair, and sank intohis chair once more like one who is crushed.

　　"One moment, Lestrade," said Holmes. "Half an hour more or lesscan make no difference to you, and the gentleman was about to giveus an account of this very interesting affair, which might aid us inclearing it up."

　　"I think there will be no difficulty in clearing it up," saidLestrade, grimly.

　　"None the less, with your permission, I should be much interested tohear his account."

　　"Well, Mr. Holmes, it is difficult for me to refuse you anything,for you have been of use to the force once or twice in the past, andwe owe you a good turn at Scotland Yard," said Lestrade. "At thesame time I must remain with my prisoner, and I am bound to warn himthat anything he may say will appear in evidence against him.""I wish nothing better," said our client. "All I ask is that youshould hear and the absolute truth."

　　Lestrade looked at his watch. "I'll give you half an hour," said he."I must explain first," said McFarlane, "that I knew nothing ofMr. Jonas Oldacre. His name was familiar to me, for many years agomy parents were acquainted with him, but they drifted apart. I wasvery much surprised therefore, when yesterday, about three o'clockin the afternoon, he walked into my office in the city. But I wasstill more astonished when he told me the object of his visit. Hehad in his hand several sheets of a notebook, covered with scribbledwriting- here they are- and he laid them on my table.

　　"`Here is my will,' said he. `I want you, Mr. McFarlane, to castit into proper legal shape. I will sit here while you do so.'"I set myself to copy it, and you can imagine my astonishment when Ifound that, with some reservations, he had left all his property tome. He was a strange little ferret-like man, with white eyelashes, andwhen I looked up at him I found his keen gray eyes fixed upon mewith an amused expression. I could hardly believe my own as I read theterms of the will; but he explained that he was a bachelor with hardlyany living relation, that he had known my parents in his youth, andthat he had always heard of me as a very deserving young man, andwas assured that his money would be in worthy hands. Of course, Icould only stammer out my thanks. The will was duly finished,signed, and witnessed by my clerk. This is it on the blue paper, andthese slips, as I have explained, are the rough draft. Mr. JonasOldacre then informed me that there were a number of documents-building leases, title-deeds, mortgages, scrip, and so forth- which itwas necessary that I should see and understand. He said that hismind would not be easy until the whole thing was settled, and hebegged me to come out to his house at Norwood that night, bringing thewill with me, and to arrange matters. `Remember, my boy, not oneword to your parents about the affair until everything is settled.We will keep it as a little surprise for them.' He was veryinsistent upon this point, and made me promise it faithfully."You can imagine, Mr. Holmes, that I was not in a humour to refusehim anything that he might ask. He was my benefactor, and all mydesire was to carry out his wishes in every particular. I sent atelegram home, therefore, to say that I had important business onhand, and that it was impossible for me to say how late I might be.Mr. Oldacre had told me that he would like me to have supper withhim at nine, as he might not be home before that hour. I had somedifficulty in finding his house, however, and it was nearlyhalf-past before I reached it. I found him-"

　　"One moment!" said Holmes. "Who opened the door?"

　　"A middle-aged woman, who was, I suppose, his housekeeper.""And it was she, I presume, who mentioned your name?"

　　"Exactly," said McFarlane.

　　"Pray proceed."

　　McFarlane wiped his damp brow, and then continued his narrative:"I was shown by this woman into a sitting-room, where a frugalsupper was laid out. Afterwards, Mr. Jonas Oldacre led me into hisbedroom, in which there stood a heavy safe. This he opened and tookout a mass of documents, which we went over together. It was betweeneleven and twelve when we finished. He remarked that we must notdisturb the housekeeper. He showed me out through his own Frenchwindow, which had been open all this time."

　　"Was the blind down?" asked Holmes.

　　"I will not be sure, but I believe that it was only half down.Yes, I remember how he pulled it up in order to swing open the window.I could not find my stick, and he said, `Never mind, my boy, I shallsee a good deal of you now, I hope, and I will keep your stick untilyou come back to claim it.' I left him there, the safe open, and thepapers made up in packets upon the table. It was so late that Icould not get back to Blackheath, so I spent the night at theAnerley Arms, and I knew nothing more until I read of this horribleaffair in the morning."

　　"Anything more that you would like to ask, Mr. Holmes?" saidLestrade, whose eyebrows had gone up once or twice during thisremarkable explanation.

　　"Not until I have been to Blackheath."

　　"You mean to Norwood," said Lestrade.

　　"Oh, yes, no doubt that is what I must have meant," said Holmes,with his enigmatical smile. Lestrade had learned by more experiencesthan he would care to acknowledge that that brain could cut throughthat which was impenetrable to him. I saw him look curiously at mycompanion.

　　"I think I should like to have a word with you presently, Mr.Sherlock Holmes," said he. "Now, Mr. McFarlane, two of my constablesare at the door, and there is a four-wheeler waiting." The wretchedyoung man arose, and with a last beseeching glance at us walked fromthe room. The officers conducted him to the cab, but Lestraderemained.

　　Holmes had picked up the pages which formed the rough draft of thewill, and was looking at them with the keenest interest upon his face."There are some points about that document, Lestrade, are therenot?" said he, pushing them over.

　　The official looked at them with a puzzled expression.

　　"I can read the first few lines and these in the middle of thesecond page, and one or two at the end. Those are as clear asprint," said he, "but the writing in between is very bad, and thereare three places where I cannot read it at all."

　　"What do you make of that?" said Holmes.

　　"Well, what do you make of it?"

　　"That it was written in a train. The good writing representsstations, the bad writing movement, and the very bad writing passingover points. A scientific expert would pronounce at once that this wasdrawn up on a suburban line, since nowhere save in the immediatevicinity of a great city could there be so quick a succession ofpoints. Granting that his whole journey was occupied in drawing up thewill, then the train was an express, only stopping once betweenNorwood and London Bridge."

　　Lestrade began to laugh.

　　"You are too many for me when you begin to get on your theories, Mr.Holmes," said he. "How does this bear on the case?"

　　"Well, it corroborates the young man's story to the extent thatthe will was drawn up by Jonas Oldacre in his journey yesterday. It iscurious- is it not?- that a man should draw up so important a documentin so haphazard a fashion. It suggests that he did not think it wasgoing to be of much practical importance. If a man drew up a willwhich he did not intend ever to be effective, he might do it so.""Well, he drew up his own death warrant at the same time," saidLestrade.

　　"Oh, you think so?"

　　"Don't you?"

　　"Well, it is quite possible, but the case is not clear to me yet.""Not clear? Well, if that isn't clear, what could be clear? Hereis a young man who learns suddenly that, if a certain older mandies, he will succeed to a fortune. What does he do? He says nothingto anyone, but he arranges that he shall go out on some pretext to seehis client that night. He waits until the only other person in thehouse is in bed, and then in the solitude of a man's room he murdershim, burns his body in the wood-pile, and departs to a neighbouringhotel. The blood-stains in the room and also on the stick are veryslight. It is probable that he imagined his crime to be a bloodlessone, and hoped that if the body were consumed it would hide all tracesof the method of his death- traces which, for some reason, must havepointed to him. Is not all this obvious?"

　　"It strikes me, my good Lestrade, as being just a trifle tooobvious," said Holmes. "You do not add imagination to your other greatqualities, but if you could for one moment put yourself in the placeof this young man, would you choose the very night after the willhad been made to commit your crime? Would it not seem dangerous to youto make so very close a relation between the two incidents? Again,would you choose an occasion when you are known to be in the house,when a servant has let you in? And, finally, would you take thegreat pains to conceal the body, and yet leave your own stick as asign that you were the criminal? Confess, Lestrade, that all this isvery unlikely."

　　"As to the stick, Mr. Holmes, you know as well as I do that acriminal is often flurried, and does such things, which a cool manwould avoid. He was very likely afraid to go back to the room. Give meanother theory that would fit the facts."

　　"I could very easily give you half a dozen," said Holmes. "Herefor example, is a very possible and even probable one. I make you afree present of it. The older man is showing documents which are ofevident value. A passing tramp sees them through the window, the blindof which is only half down. Exit the solicitor. Enter the tramp! Heseizes a stick, which he observes there, kills Oldacre, and departsafter burning the body."

　　"Why should the tramp burn the body?"

　　"For the matter of that, why should McFarlane?"

　　"To hide some evidence."

　　"Possibly the tramp wanted to hide that any murder at all had beencommitted."

　　"And why did the tramp take nothing?"

　　"Because they were papers that he could not negotiate."Lestrade shook his head, though it seemed to me that his mannerwas less absolutely assured than before.

　　"Well, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, you may look for your tramp, and whileyou are finding him we will hold on to our man. The future will showwhich is right. Just notice this point, Mr. Holmes: that so far aswe know, none of the papers were removed, and that the prisoner is theone man in the world who had no reason for removing them, since he washeir-at-law, and would come into them in any case."

　　My friend seemed struck by this remark.

　　"I don't mean to deny that the evidence is in some ways verystrongly in favour of your theory," said he. "I only wish to point outthat there are other theories possible. As you say, the future willdecide. Good-morning! I dare say that in the course of the day I shalldrop in at Norwood and see how you are getting on."

　　When the detective departed, my friend rose and made hispreparations for the day's work with the alert air of a man who hasa congenial task before him.

　　"My first movement Watson," said he, as he bustled into hisfrockcoat, "must, as I said, be in the direction of Blackheath.""And why not Norwood?"

　　"Because we have in this case one singular incident coming closeto the heels of another singular incident. The police are making themistake of concentrating their attention upon the second, because ithappens to be the one which is actually criminal. But it is evident tome that the logical way to approach the case is to begin by tryingto throw some light upon the first incident- the curious will, sosuddenly made, and to so unexpected an heir. It may do something tosimplify what followed. No, my dear fellow, I don't think you can helpme. There is no prospect of danger, or I should not dream ofstirring out without you. I trust that when I see you in theevening, I will be able to report that I have been able to dosomething for this unfortunate youngster, who has thrown himselfupon my protection."

　　It was late when my friend returned, and I could see, by a glance athis haggard and anxious face, that the high hopes with which be hadstarted had not been fulfilled. For an hour he droned away upon hisviolin, endeavouring to soothe his own ruffled spirits. At last heflung down the instrument, and plunged into a detailed account ofhis misadventures.

　　"It's all going wrong, Watson- all as wrong as it can go. I kept abold face before Lestrade, but, upon my soul, I believe that foronce the fellow is on the right track and we are on the wrong. Allmy instincts are one way, and all the facts are the other, and Imuch fear that British juries have not yet attained that pitch ofintelligence when they will give the preference to my theories overLestrade's facts."

　　"Did you go to Blackheath?"

　　"Yes, Watson, I went there, and I found very quickly that the latelamented Oldacre was a pretty considerable blackguard. The fatherwas away in search of his son. The mother was at home- a little,fluffy, blue-eyed person, in a tremor of fear and indignation. Ofcourse, she would not admit even the possibility of his guilt. But shewould not express either surprise or regret over the fate ofOldacre. On the contrary, she spoke of him with such bitterness thatshe was unconsciously considerably strengthening the case of thepolice for, of course, if her son had heard her speak of the man inthis fashion, it would predispose him towards hatred and violence. `Hewas more like a malignant and cunning ape than a human being,' saidshe, `and he always was, ever since he was a young man.'"`You knew him at that time?' said I

　　"`Yes, I knew him well, in fact, he was an old suitor of mine. Thankheaven that I had the sense to turn away from him and to marry abetter, if poorer, man. I was engaged to him, Mr. Holmes, when I hearda shocking story of how he had turned a cat loose in an aviary, andI was so horrified at his brutal cruelty that I would have nothingmore to do with him.' She rummaged in a bureau, and presently sheproduced a photograph of a woman, shamefully defaced and mutilatedwith a knife. `That is my own photograph,' she said. `He sent it to mein that state, with his curse, upon my wedding morning.'"`Well,' said I, `at least he has forgiven you now, since he hasleft all his property to your son.'

　　"`Neither my son nor I want anything from Jonas Oldacre, dead oralive!' she cried, with a proper spirit. `There is a God in heaven,Ah, Holmes, and that same God who has punished that wicked man willshow, in His own good time, that my son's hands are guiltless of hisblood.'

　　"Well, I tried one or two leads, but could get at nothing whichwould help our hypothesis, and several points which would make againstit. I gave it up at last and off I went to Norwood.

　　"This place, Deep Dene House, is a big modern villa of staringbrick, standing back in its own grounds, with a laurel-clumped lawn infront of it. To the right and some distance back from the road was thetimber-yard which had been the scene of the fire. Here's a roughplan on a leaf of my notebook. This window on the left is the onewhich opens into Oldacre's room. You can look into it from the road,you see. That is about the only bit of consolation I have hadto-day. Lestrade was not there, but his head constable did thehonours. They had just found a great treasure trove. They had spentthe morning raking among the ashes of the burned wood-pile, andbesides the charred organic remains they had secured severaldiscoloured metal discs. I examined them with care, and there was nodoubt that they were trouser buttons. I even distinguished that one ofthem was marked with the name of `Hyams,' who was Oldacres tailor. Ithen worked the lawn very carefully for signs and traces, but thisdrought has made everything as hard as iron. Nothing was to be seensave that some body or bundle had been dragged through a low privethedge which is in a line with the wood-pile. All that, of course, fitsin with the official theory. I crawled about the lawn with an Augustsun on my back, but I got up at the end of an hour no wiser thanbefore.

　　"Well, after this fiasco I went into the bedroom and examined thatalso. The blood-stains were very slight, mere smears anddiscolourations, but undoubtedly fresh. The stick had been removed,but there also the marks were slight. There is no doubt about thestick belonging to our client. He admits it. Footmarks of both mencould be made out on the carpet, but none of any third person, whichagain is a trick for the other side. They were piling up their scoreall the time and we were at a standstill.

　　"Only one little gleam of hope did I get- and yet it amounted tonothing. I examined the contents of the safe, most of which had beentaken out and left on the table. The papers had been made up intosealed envelopes, one or two of which had been opened by the police.They were not, so far as I could judge, of any great value, nor didthe bank-book show that Mr. Oldacre was in such very affluentcircumstances. But it seemed to me that all the papers were not there.There were allusions to some deeds- possibly the more valuable-which I could not find. This, of course, if we could definitelyprove it, would turn Lestrade's argument against himself, for whowould steal a thing if he knew that he would shortly inherit it?"Finally, having drawn every other cover and picked up no scent, Itried my luck with the housekeeper. Mrs. Lesington is her name- alittle, dark, silent person, with suspicious and sidelong eyes. Shecould tell us something if she would- I am convinced of it. But shewas as close as wax. Yes, she had let Mr. McFarlane in at halfpastnine. She wished her hand had withered before she had done so. She hadgone to bed at half-past ten. Her room was at the other end of thehouse, and she could hear nothing of what had passed. Mr. McFarlanehad left his hat, and to the best of her had been awakened by thealarm of fire. Her poor, dear master had certainly been murdered.Had he any enemies? Well, every man had enemies, but Mr. Oldacrekept himself very much to himself, and only met people in the way ofbusiness. She had seen the buttons, and was sure that they hadbelonged to the clothes which he had worn last night. The wood-pilewas very dry, for it had not rained for a month. It burned liketinder, and by the time she reached the spot, nothing could be seenbut flames. She and all the firemen smelled the burned flesh frominside it. She knew nothing of the papers, nor of Mr. Oldacre'sprivate affairs.

　　"So, my dear Watson, there's my report of a failure. And yet- andyet-" he clenched his thin hands in a paroxysm of conviction- "Iknow it's all wrong. I feel it in my bones. There is something thathas not come out, and that housekeeper knows it. There was a sort ofsulky defiance in her eyes, which only goes with guilty knowledge.However, there's no good talking any more about it, Watson; but unlesssome lucky chance comes our way I fear that the NorwoodDisappearance Case will not figure in that chronicle of oursuccesses which I foresee that a patient public will sooner or laterhave to endure."

　　"Surely," said I, "the man's appearance would go far with any jury?""That is a dangerous argument my dear Watson. You remember thatterrible murderer, Bert Stevens, who wanted us to get him off in'87? Was there ever a more mild-mannered, Sunday-school young man?""It is true."

　　"Unless we succeed in establishing an alternative theory, this manis lost. You can hardly find a flaw in the case which can now bepresented against him, and all further investigation has served tostrengthen it. By the way, there is one curious little point aboutthose papers which may serve us as the starting-point for aninquiry. On looking over the bank-book I found that the low state ofthe balance was principally due to large checks which have been madeout during the last year to Mr. Cornelius. I confess that I shouldbe interested to know who this Mr. Cornelius may be with whom aretired builder has had such very large transactions. Is it possiblethat he has had a hand in the affair? Cornelius might be a broker, butwe have found no scrip to correspond with these large payments.Failing any other indication, my researches must now take thedirection of an inquiry at the bank for the gentleman who has cashedthese checks. But I fear, my dear fellow, that our case will endingloriously by Lestrade hanging our client, which will certainly be atriumph for Scotland Yard."

　　I do not know how far Sherlock Holmes took any sleep that night, butwhen I came down to breakfast I found him pale and harassed, hisbright eyes the brighter for the dark shadows round them. The carpetround his chair was littered with cigarette-ends and with the earlyeditions of the morning papers. An open telegram lay upon the table."What do you think of this, Watson?" he asked, tossing it across.It was from Norwood, and ran as follows:

　　Important fresh evidence to hand. McFarlane's guilt definitelyestablished. Advise you to abandon case.

　　LESTRADE.

　　"This sounds serious," said I.

　　"It is Lestrade's little cock-a-doodle of victory," Holmes answered,with a bitter smile. "And yet it may be premature to abandon the case.After all, important fresh evidence is a two-edged thing, and maypossibly cut in a very different direction to that which Lestradeimagines. Take your breakfast, Watson, and we will go out together andsee what we can do. I feel as if I shall need your company and yourmoral support today."

　　My friend had no breakfast himself, for it was one of hispeculiarities that in his more intense moments he would permit himselfno food, and I have known him presume upon his iron strength untilhe has fainted from pure inanition. "At present I cannot spareenergy and nerve force for digestion," he would say in answer to mymedical remonstrances. I was not surprised, therefore, when thismorning he left his untouched meal behind him, and started with me forNorwood. A crowd of morbid sightseers were still gathered round DeepDene House, which was just such a suburban villa as I had pictured.Within the gates Lestrade met us, his face flushed with victory, hismanner grossly triumphant.

　　"Well, Mr. Holmes, have you proved us to be wrong yet? Have youfound your tramp?" he cried.

　　"I have formed no conclusion whatever," my companion answered."But we formed ours yesterday, and now it proves to be correct, soyou must acknowledge that we have been a little in front of you thistime, Mr. Holmes."

　　"You certainly have the air of something unusual having occurred,"said Holmes.

　　Lestrade laughed loudly.

　　"You don't like being beaten any more than the rest of us do,"said he. "A man can't expect always to have it his own way, can he,Dr. Watson? Step this way, if you please, gentlemen, and I think I canconvince you once for all that it was John McFarlane who did thiscrime."

　　He led us through the passage and out into a dark hall beyond."This is where young McFarlane must have come out to get his hatafter the crime was done," said he. "Now look at this." Withdramatic suddenness he struck a match, and by its light exposed astain of blood upon the whitewashed wall. As he held the match nearer,I saw that it was more than a stain. It was the well-marked print of athumb.

　　"Look at that with your magnifying glass, Mr. Holmes."

　　"Yes, I am doing so."

　　"You are aware that no two thumb-marks are alike?"

　　"I have heard something of the kind."

　　"Well, then, will you please compare that print with this waximpression of young McFarlane's right thumb, taken by my orders thismorning?"

　　As he held the waxen print close to the blood-stain, it did not takea magnifying glass to see that the two were undoubtedly from thesame thumb. It was evident to me that our unfortunate client was lost."That is final," said Lestrade.

　　"Yes, that is final," I involuntarily echoed.

　　"It is final," said Holmes.

　　Something in his tone caught my ear, and I turned to look at him. Anextraordinary change had come over his face. It was writhing withinward merriment. His two eyes were shining like stars. It seemed tome that he was making desperate efforts to restrain a convulsiveattack of laughter.

　　"Dear me! Dear me!" he said at last. "Well, now, who would havethought it? And how deceptive appearances may be, to be sure! Such anice young man to look at! It is a lesson to us not to trust our ownjudgment, is it not, Lestrade?"

　　"Yes, some of us are a little too much inclined to be cock-sure, Mr.Holmes," said Lestrade. The man's insolence was maddening, but wecould not resent it.

　　"What a providential thing that this young man should press hisright thumb against the wall in taking his hat from the peg! Such avery natural action, too, if you come to think if it." Holmes wasoutwardly calm, but his whole body gave a wriggle of suppressedexcitement as he spoke.

　　"By the way, Lestrade, who made this remarkable discovery?""It was the housekeeper, Mrs. Lexington, who drew the nightconstable's attention to it."

　　"Where was the night constable?"

　　"He remained on guard in the bedroom where the crime wascommitted, so as to see that nothing was touched."

　　"But why didn't the police see this mark yesterday?"

　　"Well, we had no particular reason to make a careful examinationof the hall. Besides, it's not in a very prominent place, as you see.""No, no- of course not. I suppose there is no doubt that the markwas there yesterday?"

　　Lestrade looked at Holmes as if he thought he was going out of hismind. I confess that I was myself surprised both at his hilariousmanner and at his rather wild observation.

　　"I don't know whether you think that McFarlane came out of jail inthe dead of the night in order to strengthen the evidence againsthimself," said Lestrade. "I leave it to any expert in the worldwhether that is not the mark of his thumb."

　　"It is unquestionably the mark of his thumb."

　　"There, that's enough," said Lestrade. "I am a practical man, Mr.Holmes, and when I have got my evidence I come to my conclusions. Ifyou have anything to say, you will find me writing my report in thesitting-room."

　　Holmes had recovered his equanimity, though I still seemed to detectgleams of amusement in his expression.

　　"Dear me, this is a very sad development, Watson, is it not?" saidhe. "And yet there are singular points about it which hold out somehopes for our client."

　　"I am delighted to hear it," said I, heartily. "I was afraid itwas all up with him."

　　"I would hardly go so far as to say that, my dear Watson. The factis that there is one really serious flaw in this evidence to which ourfriend attaches so much importance."

　　"Indeed, Holmes! What is it?"

　　"Only this: that I know that that was not there when I examinedthe hall yesterday. And now, Watson, let us have a little stroll roundin the sunshine."

　　With a confused brain, but with a heart into which some warmth ofhope was returning, I accompanied my friend in a walk round thegarden. Holmes took each face of the house in turn, and examined itwith great interest. He then led the way inside, and went over thewhole building from basement to attic. Most of the rooms wereunfurnished, but none the less Holmes inspected them all minutely.Finally, on the top corridor, which ran outside three untenantedbedrooms, he again was seized with a spasm of merriment."There are really some very unique features about this case,Watson," said he. "I think it is time now that we took our friendLestrade into our confidence. He has had his little smile at ourexpense, and perhaps we may do as much by him, if my reading of thisproblem proves to be correct. Yes, yes, I think I see how we shouldapproach it."

　　The Scotland Yard inspector was still writing in the parlour whenHolmes interrupted him.

　　"I understood that you were writing a report of this case," said he."So I am."

　　"Don't you think it may be a little premature? I can't help thinkingthat your evidence is not complete."

　　Lestrade knew my friend too well to disregard his words. He laiddown his pen and looked curiously at him.

　　"What do you mean, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"Only that there is an important witness whom you have not seen.""Can you produce him?"

　　"I think I can."

　　"Then do so."

　　"I will do my best. How many constables have you?"

　　"There are three within call."

　　"Excellent!" said Holmes. "May I ask if they are all large,able-bodied men with powerful voices?"

　　"I have no doubt they are, though I fail to see what their voiceshave to do with it."

　　"Perhaps I can help you to see that and one or two other things aswell," said Holmes. "Kindly summon your men, and I will try."Five minutes later, three policemen had assembled in the hall."In the outhouse you will find a considerable quantity of straw,"said Holmes. "I will ask you to carry in two bundles of it. I think itwill be of the greatest assistance in producing the witness whom Irequire. Thank you very much. I believe you have some matches inyour pocket Watson. Now, Mr. Lestrade, I will ask you all to accompanyme to the top landing."

　　As I have said, there was a broad corridor there, which ranoutside three empty bedrooms. At one end of the corridor we were allmarshalled by Sherlock Holmes, the constables grinning and Lestradestaring at my friend with amazement, expectation, and derision chasingeach other across his features. Holmes stood before us with the air ofa conjurer who is performing a trick.

　　"Would you kindly send one of your constables for two buckets ofwater? Put the straw on the floor here, free from the wall on eitherside. Now I think that we are all ready."

　　Lestrade's face had begun to grow red and angry.

　　"I don't know whether you are playing a game with us, Mr. SherlockHolmes," said he. "If you know anything, you can surely say it withoutall this tomfoolery."

　　"I assure you, my good Lestrade, that I have an excellent reason foreverything that I do. You may possibly remember that you chaffed mea little, some hours ago, when the sun seemed on your side of thehedge, so you must not grudge me a little pomp and ceremony now. MightI ask you, Watson, to open that window, and then to put a match to theedge of the straw?"

　　I did so, and driven by the draught a coil of gray smoke swirleddown the corridor, while the dry straw crackled and flamed."Now we must see if we can find this witness for you, Lestrade.Might I ask you all to join in the cry of `Fire!'? Now then; one, two,three-"

　　"Fire!" we all yelled.

　　"Thank you. I will trouble you once again."

　　"Fire!"

　　"Just once more, gentlemen, and all together."

　　"Fire!" The shout must have rung over Norwood.

　　It had hardly died away when an amazing thing happened. A doorsuddenly flew open out of what appeared to be solid wall at the end ofthe corridor, and a little, wizened man darted out of it, like arabbit out of its burrow.

　　"Capital!" said Holmes, calmly. "Watson, a bucket of water overthe straw. That will do! Lestrade, allow me to present you with yourprincipal missing witness, Mr. Jonas Oldacre."

　　The detective stared at the newcomer with blank amazement. Thelatter was blinking in the bright light of the corridor, and peeringat us and at the smouldering fire. It was an odious face- crafty,vicious, malignant, with shifty, light-gray eyes and white lashes."What's this, then?" said Lestrade, at last. "What have you beendoing all this time, eh?"

　　Oldacre gave an uneasy laugh, shrinking back from the furious redface of the angry detective.

　　"I have done no harm."

　　"No harm? You have done your best to get an innocent man hanged.If it wasn't this gentleman here, I am not sure that you would nothave succeeded."

　　The wretched creature began to whimper.

　　"I am sure, sir, it was only my practical joke."

　　"Oh! a joke, was it? You won't find the laugh on your side, I promiseyou. Take him down, and keep him in the sitting-room until I come. Mr.Holmes," he continued, when they had gone, "I could not speak beforethe constables, but I don't mind saying, in the presence of Dr.Watson, that this is the brightest thing that you have done yet,though it is a mystery to me how you did it. You have saved aninnocent man's life, and you have prevented a very grave scandal,which would have ruined my reputation in the Force."

　　Holmes smiled, and clapped Lestrade upon the shoulder.

　　"Instead of being ruined, my good sir, you will find that yourreputation has been enormously enhanced. Just make a few alterationsin that report which you were writing, and they will understand howhard it is to throw dust in the eyes of Inspector Lestrade.""And you don't want your name to appear?"

　　"Not at all. The work is its own reward. Perhaps I shall get thecredit also at some distant day, when I permit my zealous historian tolay out his foolscap once more- eh, Watson? Well, now, let us seewhere this rat has been lurking."

　　A lath-and-plaster partition had been run across the passage sixfeet from the end, with a door cunningly concealed in it. It was litwithin by slits under the eaves. A few articles of furniture and asupply of food and water were within, together with a number ofbooks and papers.

　　"There's the advantage of being a builder," said Holmes, as wecame out. "He was able to fix up his own little hiding-place withoutany confederate- save, of course, that precious housekeeper of his,whom I should lose no time in adding to your bag, Lestrade.""I'll take your advice. But how did you know of this place, Mr.Holmes?"

　　"I made up my mind that the fellow was in hiding in the house.When I paced one corridor and found it six feet shorter than thecorresponding one below, it was pretty clear where he was. I thoughthe had not the nerve to lie quiet before an alarm of fire. We could,of course, have gone in and taken him, but it amused me to make himreveal himself. Besides, I owed you a little mystification,Lestrade, for your chaff in the morning."

　　"Well, sir, you certainly got equal with me on that. But how inthe world did you know that he was in the house at all?""The thumb-mark, Lestrade. You said it was final; and so it was,in a very different sense. I knew it had not been there the daybefore. I pay a good deal of attention to matters of detail, as youmay have observed, and I had examined the hall, and was sure thatthe wall was clear. Therefore, it had been put on during the night.""But how?"

　　"Very simply. When those packets were sealed up, Jonas Oldacre gotMcFarlane to secure one of the seals by putting his thumb upon thesoft wax. It would be done so quickly and so naturally, that I daresaythe young man himself has no recollection of it. Very likely it justso happened, and Oldacre had himself no notion of the use he would putit to. Brooding over the case in that den of his, it suddenly struckhim what absolutely damning evidence he could make against McFarlaneby using that thumb-mark. It was the simplest thing in the world forhim to take a wax impression from the seal, to moisten it in as muchblood as he could get from a pin-prick, and to put the mark upon thewall during the night, either with his own hand or with that of hishousekeeper. If you examine among those documents which he took withhim into his retreat, I will lay you a wager that you find the sealwith the thumb-mark upon it."

　　"Wonderful!" said Lestrade. "Wonderful! It's all as clear ascrystal, as you put it. But what is the object of this deep deception,Mr. Holmes?"

　　It was amusing to me to see how the detective's overbearing mannerhad changed suddenly to that of a child asking questions of itsteacher.

　　"Well, I don't think that is very hard to explain. A very deep,malicious, vindictive person is the gentleman who is now waiting usdownstairs. You know that he was once refused by McFarlane's mother?You don't! I told you that you should go to Blackheath first andNorwood afterwards. Well, this injury, as he would consider it, hasrankled in his wicked, scheming brain, and all his life he haslonged for vengeance, but never seen his chance. During the lastyear or two, things have gone against him- secret speculation, Ithink- and he finds himself in a bad way. He determines to swindle hiscreditors, and for this purpose he pays large checks to a certainMr. Cornelius, who is, I imagine, himself under another name. I havenot traced these checks yet, but I have no doubt that they were bankedunder that name at some provincial town where Oldacre from time totime led a double existence. He intended to change his namealtogether, draw this money, and vanish, starting life againelsewhere."

　　"Well, that's likely enough."

　　"It would strike him that in disappearing he might throw all pursuitoff his track, and at the same time have an ample and crushing revengeupon his old sweetheart, if he could give the impression that he hadbeen murdered by her only child. It was a masterpiece of villainy, andhe carried it out like a master. The idea of the will, which wouldgive an obvious motive for the crime, the secret visit unknown tohis own parents, the retention of the stick, the blood, and the animalremains and buttons in the wood-pile, all were admirable. It was a netfrom which it seemed to me, a few hours ago, that there was nopossible escape. But he had not that supreme gift of the artist, theknowledge of when to stop. He wished to improve that which was alreadyperfect- to draw the rope tighter yet round the neck of hisunfortunate victim- and so he ruined all. Let us descend, Lestrade.There are just one or two questions that I would ask him."The malignant creature was seated in his own parlour, with apoliceman upon each side of him.

　　"It was a joke, my good sir- a practical joke, nothing more," hewhined incessantly. "I assure you, sir, that I simply concealed myselfin order to see the effect of my disappearance, and I am sure that youwould not be so unjust as to imagine that I would have allowed anyharm to befall poor young Mr. McFarlane."

　　"That's for a jury to decide," said Lestrade. "Anyhow, we shall haveyou on a charge of conspiracy, if not for attempted murder.""And you'll probably find that your creditors will impound thebanking account of Mr. Cornelius," said Holmes.

　　The little man started, and turned his malignant eyes upon myfriend.

　　"I have to thank you for a good deal," said he. "Perhaps I'll pay mydebt some day."

　　Holmes smiled indulgently.

　　"I fancy that, for some few years, you will find your time veryfully occupied," said he. "By the way, what was it you put into thewood-pile besides your old trousers? A dead dog, or rabbits, orwhat? You won't tell? Dear me, how very unkind of you! Well, well, Idaresay that a couple of rabbits would account both for the bloodand for the charred ashes. If ever you write an account, Watson, youcan make rabbits serve your turn."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1904

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE PRIORY SCHOOL

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE PRIORY SCHOOL

　　We have had some dramatic entrances and exits upon our small stageat Baker Street, but I cannot recollect anything more sudden andstartling than the first appearance of Thorneycroft Huxtable, M.A.,Ph.D., etc. His card, which seemed too small to carry the weight ofhis academic distinctions, preceded him by a few seconds, and thenhe entered himself- so large, so pompous, and so dignified that he wasthe very embodiment of self-possession and solidity. And yet his firstaction, when the door had closed behind him, was to stagger againstthe table, whence he slipped down upon the floor, and there was thatmajestic figure prostrate and insensible upon our bearskin hearthrug.We had sprung to our feet, and for a few moments we stared in silentamazement at this ponderous piece of wreckage, which told of somesudden and fatal storm far out on the ocean of life. Then Holmeshurried with a cushion for his head, and I with brandy for his lips.The heavy, white face was seamed with lines of trouble, the hangingpouches under the closed eyes were leaden in colour, the loose mouthdrooped dolorously at the corners, the rolling chins were unshaven.Collar and shirt bore the grime of a long journey, and the hairbristled unkempt from the well-shaped head. It was a sorely strickenman who lay before us.

　　"What is it, Watson?" asked Holmes.

　　"Absolute exhaustion- possibly mere hunger and fatigue," said I,with my finger on the thready pulse, where the stream of life trickledthin and small.

　　"Return ticket from Mackleton, in the north of England," saidHolmes, drawing it from the watch-pocket. "It is not twelve o'clockyet He has certainly been an early starter."

　　The puckered eyelids had begun to quiver, and now a pair of vacantgray eyes looked up at us. An instant later the man had scrambled onto his feet, his face crimson with shame.

　　"Forgive this weakness, Mr. Holmes, I have been a littleoverwrought. Thank you, if I might have a glass of milk and a biscuit,I have no doubt that I should be better. I came personally, Mr.Holmes, in order to insure that you would return with me. I fearedthat no telegram would convince you of the absolute urgency of thecase."

　　"When you are quite restored-"

　　"I am quite well again. I cannot imagine how I came to be so weak. Iwish you, Mr. Holmes, to come to Mackleton with me by the next train."My friend shook his head.

　　"My colleague, Dr. Watson, could tell you that we are very busy atpresent. I am retained in this case of the Ferrers Documents, andthe Abergavenny murder is coming up for trial. Only a very importantissue could call me from London at present."

　　"Important!" Our visitor threw up his hands. "Have you heard nothingof the abduction of the only son of the Duke of Holdernesse?""What! the late Cabinet Minister?"

　　"Exactly. We had tried to keep it out of the papers, but there wassome rumor in the Globe last night. I thought it might have reachedyour ears."

　　Holmes shot out his long, thin arm and picked out Volume "H" inhis encyclopaedia of reference.

　　"`Holdernesse, 6th Duke, K.G., P.C.'- half the alphabet! 'BaronBeverley, Earl of Carston'- dear me, what a list! 'Lord Lieutenantof Hallamshire since 1900. Married Edith, daughter of Sir CharlesAppledore, 1888. Heir and only child, Lord Saltire. Owns about twohundred and fifty thousand acres. Minerals in Lancashire and Wales.Address: Carlton House Terrace; Holdernesse Hall, Hallamshire; CarstonCastle, Bangor, Wales. Lord of the Admiralty, 1872; Chief Secretary ofState for-' Well, well, this man is certainly one of the greatestsubjects of the Crown!"

　　"The greatest and perhaps the wealthiest. I am aware, Mr. Holmes,that you take a very high line in professional matters, and that youare prepared to work for the work's sake. I may tell you, however,that his Grace has already intimated that a check for five thousandpounds will be handed over to the person who can tell him where hisson is, and another thousand to him who can name the man or men whohave taken him."

　　"It is a princely offer," said Holmes. "Watson, I think that weshall accompany Dr. Huxtable back to the north of England. And now,Dr. Huxtable, when you have consumed that milk, you will kindly tellme what has happened, when it happened, how it happened, and, finally,what Dr. Thorneycroft Huxtable, of the Priory School, nearMackleton, has to do with the matter, and why he comes three daysafter an event- the state of your chin gives the date- to ask for myhumble services."

　　Our visitor had consumed his milk and biscuits. The light had comeback to his eyes and the colour to his cheeks, as he set himselfwith great vigour and lucidity to explain the situation."I must inform you, gentlemen, that the Priory is a preparatoryschool, of which I am the founder and principal. Huxtable's Sidelightson Horace may possibly recall my name to your memories. The Priory is,without exception, the best and most select preparatory school inEngland. Lord Leverstoke, the Earl of Blackwater, Sir Cathcart Soames-they all have intrusted their sons to me. But I felt that my schoolhad reached its zenith when, weeks ago, the Duke of Holdernesse sentMr. James Wilder, his secretary, with intimation that young LordSaltire, ten years old, his only son and heir, was about to becommitted to my charge. Little did I think that this would be theprelude to the most crushing misfortune of my life.

　　"On May 1st the boy arrived, that being the beginning of thesummer term. He was a charming youth, and he soon fell into ourways. I may tell you- I trust that I am not indiscreet, buthalf-confidences are absurd in such a case- that he was not entirelyhappy at home. It is an open secret that the Duke's married life hadnot been a peaceful one, and the matter had ended in a separation bymutual consent, the Duchess taking up her residence in the south ofFrance. This had occurred very shortly before, and the boy'ssympathies are known to have been strongly with his mother. He mopedafter her departure from Holdernesse Hall, and it was for thisreason that the Duke desired to send him to my establishment. In afortnight the boy was quite at home with us and was apparentlyabsolutely happy.

　　"He was last seen on the night of May 13th- that is, the night oflast Monday. His room was on the second floor and was approachedthrough another larger room, in which two boys were sleeping. Theseboys saw and heard nothing, so that it is certain that young Saltiredid not pass out that way. His window was open, and there is a stoutivy plant leading to the ground. We could trace no footmarks below,but it is sure that this is the only possible exit.

　　"His absence was discovered at seven o'clock on Tuesday morning. Hisbed had been slept in. He had dressed himself fully, before going off,in his usual school suit of black Eton jacket and dark graytrousers. There were no signs that anyone had entered the room, and itis quite certain that anything in the nature of cries or ones strugglewould have been heard, since Caunter, the elder boy in the inner room,is a very light sleeper.

　　"When Lord Saltire's disappearance was discovered, I at oncecalled a roll of the whole establishment- boys, masters, and servants.It was then that we ascertained that Lord Saltire had not been alonein his flight. Heidegger, the German master, was missing. His room wason the second floor, at the farther end of the building, facing thesame way as Lord Saltire's. His bed had also been slept in, but he hadapparently gone away partly dressed, since his shirt and socks werelying on the floor. He had undoubtedly let himself down by the ivy,for we could see the marks of his feet where he had landed on thelawn. His bicycle was kept in a small shed beside this lawn, and italso was gone.

　　"He had been with me for two years, and came with the bestreferences, but he was a silent, morose man, not very popular eitherwith masters or boys. No trace could be found of the fugitives, andnow, on Thursday morning, we are as ignorant as we were on Tuesday.Inquiry was, of course, made at once at Holdernesse Hall. It is only afew miles away, and we imagined that, in some sudden attack ofhomesickness, he had gone back to his father, but nothing had beenheard of him. The Duke is greatly agitated, and, as to me, you haveseen yourselves the state of nervous prostration to which the suspenseand the responsibility have reduced me. Mr. Holmes, if ever you putforward your full powers, I implore you to do so now, for never inyour life could you have a case which is more worthy of them."Sherlock Holmes had listened with the utmost intentness to thestatement of the unhappy schoolmaster. His drawn brows and the deepfurrow between them showed that he needed no exhortation toconcentrate all his attention upon a problem which, apart from thetremendous interests involved must appeal so directly to his love ofthe complex and the unusual. He now drew out his notebook and jotteddown one or two memoranda.

　　"You have been very remiss in not coming to me sooner," said he,severely. "You start me on my investigation with a very serioushandicap. It is inconceivable, for example, that this ivy and thislawn would have yielded nothing to an expert observer.""I am not to blame, Mr. Holmes. His Grace was extremely desirousto avoid all public scandal. He was afraid of his family unhappinessbeing dragged before the world. He has a deep horror of anything ofthe kind."

　　"But there has been some official investigation?"

　　"Yes, sir, and it has proved most disappointing. An apparent cluewas at once obtained, since a boy and a young man were reported tohave been seen leaving a neighbouring station by an early train.Only last night we had news that the couple had been hunted down inLiverpool, and they prove to have no connection whatever with thematter in hand. Then it was that in my despair and disappointment,after a sleepless night, I came straight to you by the early train.""I suppose the local investigation was relaxed while this false cluewas being followed up?"

　　"It was entirely dropped."

　　"So that three days have been wasted. The affair has been mostdeplorably handled."

　　"I feel it and admit it."

　　"And yet the problem should be capable of ultimate solution. I shallbe very happy to look into it. Have you been able to trace anyconnection between the missing boy and this German master?""None at all."

　　"Was he in the master's class?"

　　"No, he never exchanged a word with him, so far as I know.""That is certainly very singular. Had the boy a bicycle?""No."

　　"Was any other bicycle missing?"

　　"No."

　　"Is that certain?"

　　"Quite."

　　"Well, now, you do not mean to seriously suggest that this Germanrode off upon a bicycle in the dead of the night, bearing the boy inhis arms?"

　　"Certainly not."

　　"Then what is the theory in your mind?"

　　"The bicycle may have been a blind. It may have been hiddensomewhere, and the pair gone off on foot."

　　"Quite so, but it seems rather an absurd blind, does it not? Werethere other bicycles in this shed?"

　　"Several."

　　"Would he not have hidden a couple, had he desired to give theidea that they had gone off upon them?"

　　"I suppose he would."

　　"Of course he would. The blind theory won't do. But the incidentis an admirable starting-point for an investigation. After all, abicycle is not an easy thing to conceal or to destroy. One otherquestion. Did anyone call to see the boy on the day before hedisappeared?"

　　"No."

　　"Did he get any letters?"

　　"Yes, one letter."

　　"From whom?"

　　"From his father."

　　"Do you open the boys' letters?"

　　"No."

　　"How do you know it was from the father?"

　　"The coat of arms was on the envelope, and it was addressed in theDuke's peculiar stiff hand. Besides, the Duke remembers havingwritten."

　　"When had he a letter before that?"

　　"Not for several days."

　　"Had he ever one from France?"

　　"No, never.

　　"You see the point of my questions, of course. Either the boy wascarried off by force or he went of his own free will. In the lattercase, you would expect that some prompting from outside would beneeded to make so young a lad do such a thing. If he has had novisitors, that prompting must have come in letters; hence I try tofind out who were his correspondents."

　　"I fear I cannot help you much. His only correspondent, so far asI know, was his own father."

　　"Who wrote to him on the very day of his disappearance. Were therelations between father and son very friendly?"

　　"His Grace is never very friendly with anyone. He is completelyimmersed in large public questions, and is rather inaccessible toall ordinary emotions. But he was always kind to the boy in his ownway."

　　"But the of the latter were with the mother?"

　　"Yes."

　　"Did he say so?"

　　"No."

　　"The Duke, then?"

　　"Good heaven, no!"

　　"Then how could you know?"

　　"I have had some confidential talks with Mr. James Wilder, hisGraces secretary. It was he who gave me the information about LordSaltire's feelings."

　　"I see. By the way, that last letter of the Dukes- was it found inthe boy's room after he was gone?"

　　"No, he had taken it with him. I think, Mr. Holmes, it is timethat we were leaving for Euston."

　　"I will order a four-wheeler. In a quarter of an hour, we shall beat your service. If you are telegraphing home, Mr. Huxtable, itwould be well to allow the people in your neighbourhood to imaginethat the inquiry is still going on in Liverpool, or wherever else thatred herring led your pack. In the meantime I will do a little quietwork at your own doors, and perhaps the scent is not so cold butthat two old hounds like Watson and myself may get a sniff of it."That evening found us in the cold, bracing atmosphere of the Peakcountry, in which Dr. Huxtable's famous school is situated. It wasalready dark when we reached it. A card was lying on the hall table,and the butler whispered something to his master, who turned to uswith agitation in every heavy feature.

　　"The Duke is here," said he. "The Duke and Mr. Wilder are in thestudy. Come, gentlemen, and I will introduce you."

　　I was, of course, familiar with the pictures of the famousstatesman, but the man himself was very different from hisrepresentation. He was a tall and stately person, scrupulouslydressed, with a drawn, thin face, and a nose which was grotesquelycurved and long. His complexion was of a dead pallor, which was morestartling by contrast with a long, dwindling beard of vivid red, whichflowed down over his white waistcoat with his watch-chain gleamingthrough its fringe. Such was the stately presence who looked stonilyat us from the centre of Dr. Huxtable's hearthrug. Beside him stooda very young man, whom I understood to be Wilder, the privatesecretary. He was small, nervous, alert with intelligent light-blueeyes and mobile features. It was he who at once, in an incisive andpositive tone, opened the conversation.

　　"I called this morning, Dr. Huxtable, too late to prevent you fromstarting for London. I learned that your object was to invite Mr.Sherlock Holmes to undertake the conduct of this case. His Grace issurprised, Dr. Huxtable, that you should have taken such a stepwithout consulting him."

　　"When I learned that the police had failed-"

　　"His Grace is by no means convinced that the police have failed.""But surely, Mr. Wilder-"

　　"You are well aware, Dr. Huxtable, that his Grace is particularlyanxious to avoid all public scandal. He prefers to take as fewpeople as possible into his confidence."

　　"The matter can be easily remedied," said the browbeaten doctor;"Mr. Sherlock Holmes can return to London by the morning train.""Hardly that, Doctor, hardly that," said Holmes, in his blandestvoice. "This northern air is invigorating and pleasant, so I proposeto spend a few days upon your moors, and to occupy my mind as best Imay. Whether I have the shelter of your roof or of the village inn is,of course, for you to decide."

　　I could see that the unfortunate doctor was in the last stage ofindecision, from which he was rescued by the deep, sonorous voice ofthe red-bearded Duke, which boomed out like a dinner-gong."I agree with Mr. Wilder, Dr. Huxtable, that you would have donewisely to consult me. But since Mr. Holmes has already been taken intoyour confidence, it would indeed be absurd that we should not availourselves of his services. Far from going to the inn, Mr. Holmes, Ishould be pleased if you would come and stay with me at HoldernesseHall."

　　"I thank your Grace. For the purposes of my investigation, I thinkthat it would be wiser for me to remain at the scene of the mystery.""Just as you like, Mr. Holmes. Any information which Mr. Wilder or Ican give you is, of course, at your disposal."

　　"It will probably be necessary for me to see you at the Hall,"said Holmes. "I would only ask you now, sir, whether you have formedany explanation in your own mind as to the mysterious disappearance ofyour son?"

　　"No sir I have not."

　　"Excuse me if I allude to that which is painful to you, but I haveno alternative. Do you think that the Duchess had anything to dowith the matter?"

　　The great minister showed perceptible hesitation.

　　"I do not think so," he said, at last.

　　"The other most obvious explanation is that the child has beenkidnapped for the purpose of levying ransom. You have not had anydemand of the sort?"

　　"No, sir."

　　"One more question, your Grace. I understand that you wrote toyour son upon the day when this incident occurred."

　　"No, I wrote upon the day before."

　　"Exactly. But he received it on that day?"

　　"Yes."

　　"Was there anything in your letter which might have unbalanced himor induced him to take such a step?"

　　"No, sir, certainly not."

　　"Did you post that letter yourself?"

　　The nobleman's reply was interrupted by his secretary, who brokein with some heat.

　　"His Grace is not in the habit of posting letters himself," said he."This letter was laid with others upon the study table, and I myselfput them in the post-bag."

　　"You are sure this one was among them?"

　　"Yes, I observed it."

　　"How many letters did your Grace write that day?"

　　"Twenty or thirty. I have a large correspondence. But surely this issomewhat irrelevant?"

　　"Not entirely," said Holmes.

　　"For my own part," the Duke continued, "I have advised the police toturn their attention to the south of France. I have already saidthat I do not believe that the Duchess would encourage so monstrous anaction, but the lad had the most wrongheaded opinions, and it ispossible that he may have fled to her, aided and abetted by thisGerman. I think, Dr. Huxtable, that we will now return to the Hall."I could see that there were other questions which Holmes wouldhave wished to put, but the nobleman's abrupt manner showed that theinterview was at an end. It was evident that to his intenselyaristocratic nature this discussion of his intimate family affairswith a stranger was most abhorrent, and that he feared lest everyfresh question would throw a fiercer light into the discreetlyshadowed corners of his ducal history.

　　When the nobleman and his secretary had left, my friend flunghimself at once with characteristic eagerness into the investigation.The boy's chamber was carefully examined, and yielded nothing savethe absolute conviction that it was only through the window that hecould have escaped. The German master's room and effects gave nofurther clue. In his case a trailer of ivy had given way under hisweight, and we saw by the light of a lantern the mark on the lawnwhere his heels had come down. That one dint in the short, green grasswas the only material witness left of this inexplicable nocturnalflight.

　　Sherlock Holmes left the house alone, and only returned aftereleven. He had obtained a large ordnance map of the neighbourhood, andthis he brought into my room, where he laid it out on the bed, and,having balanced the lamp in the middle of it, he began to smoke overit, and occasionally to point out objects of interest with the reekingamber of his pipe.

　　"This case grows upon me, Watson," said he. "There are decidedlysome points of interest in connection with it. In this early stage,I want you to realize those geographical features which may have agood deal to do with our investigation.

　　"Look at this map. This dark square is the Priory School. I'll put apin in it. Now, this line is the main road. You see that it runseast and west past the school, and you see also that there is noside road for a mile either way. If these two folk passed away byroad, it was this road." (See illustration.)

　　"Exactly."

　　"By a singular and happy chance, we are able to some extent to checkwhat passed along this road during the night in question. At thispoint, where my pipe is now resting, a county constable was on dutyfrom twelve to six. It is, as you perceive, the first cross-road onthe east side. This man declares that he was not absent from hispost for an instant, and he is positive that neither boy nor man couldhave gone that way unseen. I have spoken with this policemanto-night and he appears to me to be a perfectly reliable person.That blocks this end. We have now to deal with the other. There isan inn here, the Red Bull, the landlady of which was ill. She had sentto Mackleton for a doctor, but he did not arrive until morning,being absent at another case. The people at the inn were alert allnight, awaiting his coming, and one or other of them seems to havecontinually had an eye upon the road. They declare that no one passed.If their evidence is good, then we are fortunate enough to be ableto block the west, and also to be able to say that the fugitives didnot use the road at all."

　　"But the bicycle?" I objected.

　　"Quite so. We will come to the bicycle presently. To continue ourreasoning: if these people did not go by the road, they must havetraversed the country to the north of the house or to the south of thehouse. That is certain. Let us weigh the one against the other. On thesouth of the house is, as you perceive, a large district of ambleland, cut up into small fields, with stone walls between them.There, I admit that a bicycle is impossible. We can dismiss theidea. We turn to the country on the north. Here there lies a groveof trees, marked as the 'Ragged Shaw,' and on the farther sidestretches a great rolling moor, Lower Gill Moor, extending for tenmiles and sloping gradually upward. Here, at one side of thiswilderness, is Holdernesse Hall, ten miles by road, but only sixacross the moor. It is a peculiarly desolate plain. A few moor farmershave small holdings, where they rear sheep and cattle. Except these,the plover and the curlew are the only inhabitants until you come tothe Chesterfield high road. There is a church there, you see, a fewcottages, and an inn. Beyond that the hills become precipitous. Surelyit is here to the north that our quest must lie."

　　"But the bicycle?" I persisted.

　　"Well, well!" said Holmes, impatiently. "A good cyclist does notneed a high road. The moor is intersected with paths, and the moon wasat the full. Halloa! what is this?"

　　There was an agitated knock at the door, and an instant afterwardsDr. Huxtable was in the room. In his hand he held a blue cricket-capwith a white chevron on the peak.

　　"At last we have a clue!" he cried. "Thank heaven! at last we are onthe dear boy's track! It is his cap."

　　"Where was it found?"

　　"In the van of the gipsies who camped on the moor. They left onTuesday. To-day the police traced them down and examined theircaravan. This was found."

　　"How do they account for it?"

　　"They shuffled and lied- said that they found it on the moor onTuesday morning. They know where he is, the rascals! Thank goodness,they are all safe under lock and key. Either the fear of the law orthe Duke's purse will certainly get out of them all that they know.""So far, so good," said Holmes, when the doctor had at last left theroom. "It at least bears out the theory that it is on the side ofthe Lower Gill Moor that we must hope for results. The police havereally done nothing locally, save the arrest of these gipsies. Lookhere, Watson! There is a watercourse across the moor. You see itmarked here in the map. In some parts it widens into a morass. This isparticularly so in the region between Holdernesse Hall and the school.It is vain to look elsewhere for tracks in this dry weather, but atthat point there is certainly a chance of some record being left. Iwill call you early to-morrow morning, and you and I will try if wecan throw some little light upon the mystery."

　　The day was just breaking when I woke to find the long, thin form ofHolmes by my bedside. He was fully dressed, and had apparently alreadybeen out.

　　"I have done the lawn and the bicycle shed," said, he. "I havealso had a rumble through the Ragged Shaw. Now, Watson, there is cocoaready in the next room. I must beg you to hurry, for we have a greatday before us."

　　His eyes shone, and his cheek was flushed with the exhilaration ofthe master workman who sees his work lie ready before him. A verydifferent Holmes, this active, alert man, from the introspective andpallid dreamer of Baker Street. I felt, as I looked upon thatsupple, figure, alive with nervous energy, that it was indeed astrenuous day that awaited us.

　　And yet it opened in the blackest disappointment. With high hopes westruck across the peaty, russet moor, intersected with a thousandsheep paths, until we came to the broad, light-green belt which markedthe morass between us and Holdernesse. Certainly, if the lad hadgone homeward, he must have passed this, and he could not pass itwithout leaving his traces. But no sign of him or the German couldbe seen. With a darkening face my friend strode along the margin,eagerly observant of every muddy stain upon the mossy surface.Sheep-marks there were in profusion, and at one place, some milesdown, cows had left their tracks. Nothing more.

　　"Check number one," said Holmes, looking gloomily over the rollingexpanse of the moor. "There is another morass down yonder, and anarrow neck between. Halloa! halloa! halloa! what have we here?"We had come on a small black ribbon of pathway. In the middle of it,clearly marked on the sodden soil, was the track of a bicycle."Hurrah!" I cried. "We have it."

　　But Holmes was shaking his head, and his face was puzzled andexpectant rather than joyous.

　　"A bicycle, certainly, but not the bicycle," said he. "I am familiarwith forty-two different impressions left by tyres. This, as youperceive, is a Dunlop, with a patch upon the outer cover.Heidegger's tyres were Palmer's, leaving longitudinal stripes.Aveling, the mathematical master, was sure upon the point.Therefore, it is not Heidegger's track."

　　"The boy's, then?"

　　"Possibly, if we could prove a bicycle to have been in hispossession. But this we have utterly failed to do. This track, asyou perceive, was made by a rider who was going from the directionof the school."

　　"Or towards it?"

　　"No, no, my dear Watson. The more deeply sunk impression is, ofcourse, the hind wheel, upon which the weight rests. You perceiveseveral places where it has passed across and obliterated the moreshallow mark of the front one. It was undoubtedly heading away fromthe school. It may or may not be connected with our inquiry, but wewill follow it backwards before we go any farther."

　　We did so, and at the end of a few hundred yards lost the tracksas we emerged from the boggy portion of the moor. Following the pathbackwards, we picked out another spot, where a spring trickledacross it. Here, once again, was the mark of the bicycle, thoughnearly obliterated by the hoofs of cows. After that there was no sign,but the path ran right on into Ragged Shaw, the wood which backed onto the school. From this wood the cycle must have emerged. Holmessat down on a boulder and rested his chin in his hands. I had smokedtwo cigarettes before he moved.

　　"Well, well," said he, at last. "It is, of course, possible that acunning man might change the tyres of his bicycle in order to leaveunfamiliar tracks. A criminal who was capable of such a thought is aman whom I should be proud to do business with. We will leave thisquestion undecided and hark back to our morass again, for we have lefta good deal unexplored."

　　We continued our systematic survey of the edge of the sodden portionof the moor, and soon our perseverance was gloriously rewarded.Right across the lower part of the bog lay a miry path. Holmes gavea cry of delight as he approached it. An impression like a fine bundleof telegraph wires ran down the centre of it. It was the Palmer tyres."Here is Herr Heidegger, sure enough!" cried Holmes, exultantly. "Myreasoning seems to have been pretty sound, Watson."

　　"I congratulate you."

　　"But we have a long way still to go. Kindly walk clear of thepath. Now let us follow the trail. I fear that it will not lead veryfar."

　　We found, however, as we advanced that this portion of the moor isintersected with soft patches, and, though we frequently lost sight ofthe track, we always succeeded in picking it up once more."Do you observe," said Holmes, "that the rider is now undoubtedlyforcing the pace? There can be no doubt of it. Look at thisimpression, where you get both tires clear. The one is as deep asthe other. That can only mean that the rider is throwing his weight onto the handle-bar, as a man does when he is sprinting. By Jove! he hashad a fall."

　　There was a broad, irregular smudge covering some yards of thetrack. Then there were a few footmarks, and the tyres reappearedonce more.

　　"A side-slip," I suggested.

　　Holmes held up a crumpled branch of flowering gorse. To my horrorI perceived that the yellow blossoms were all dabbled with crimson. Onthe path, too, and among the heather were dark stains of clottedblood.

　　"Bad!" said Holmes. "Bad! Stand clear, Watson! Not an unnecessaryfootstep! What do I read here? He fell wounded- he stood up- heremounted- he proceeded. But there is no other track. Cattle on thisside path. He was surely not gored by a bull? Impossible! But I see notraces of anyone else. We must push on, Watson. Surely, with stains aswell as the track to guide us, he cannot escape us now."Our search was not a very long one. The tracks of the tyre beganto curve fantastically upon the wet and shining path. Suddenly, as Ilooked ahead, the gleam of caught my eye from amid the thickgorse-bushes. Out of them we dragged a bicycle, Palmer-tyred, onepedal bent, and the whole front of it horribly smeared and slobberedwith blood. On the other side of the bushes a shoe was projecting.We ran round, and there lay the unfortunate rider. He was a tallman, full-bearded, with spectacles, one glass of which had beenknocked out. The cause of his death was a frightful blow upon thehead, which had crushed in part of his skull. That he could havegone on after receiving such an injury said much for the vitalityand courage of the man. He wore shoes, but no socks, and his open coatdisclosed a nightshirt beneath it. It was undoubtedly the Germanmaster.

　　Holmes turned the body over reverently, and examined it with greatattention. He then sat in deep thought for a time, and I could seeby his ruffied brow that this grim discovery had not, in hisopinion, advanced us much in our inquiry.

　　"It is a little difficult to know what to do, Watson," said he, atlast. "My own inclinations are to push this inquiry on, for we havealready lost so much time that we cannot afford to waste another hour.On the other hand, we are bound to inform the police of the discovery,and to see that this poor fellow's body is looked after.""I could take a note back."

　　"But I need your company and assistance. Wait a bit! There is afellow cutting peat up yonder. Bring him over here, and he willguide the police."

　　I brought the peasant across, and Holmes dispatched the frightenedman with a note to Dr. Huxtable.

　　"Now, Watson," said he, "we have picked up two clues this morning.One is the bicycle with the Palmer tyre, and we see what that hasled to. The other is the bicycle with the patched Dunlop. Before westart to investigate that, let us try to realize what we do know, soas to make the most of it, and to separate the essential from theaccidental."

　　"First of all, I wish to impress upon you that the boy certainlyleft of his own free-will. He got down from his window and he wentoff, either alone or with someone. That is sure."

　　I assented.

　　"Well, now, let us turn to this unfortunate German master. The boywas fully dressed when he fled. Therefore, he foresaw what he woulddo. But the German went without his socks. He certainly acted onvery short notice."

　　"Undoubtedly."

　　"Why did he go? Because, from his bedroom window, he saw theflight of the boy, because he wished to overtake him and bring himback. He seized his bicycle, pursued the lad, and in pursuing himmet his death."

　　"So it would seem."

　　"Now I come to the critical part of my argument. The naturalaction of a man in pursuing a little boy would be to run after him. Hewould know that he could overtake him. But the German does not doso. He turns to his bicycle. I am told that he was an excellentcyclist. He would not do this, if he did not see that the boy had someswift means of escape."

　　"The other bicycle."

　　"Let us continue our reconstruction. He meets his death five milesfrom the school- not by a bullet, mark you, which even a lad mightconceivably discharge, but by a savage blow dealt by a vigorous arm.The lad, then, had a companion his flight. And the flight was aswift one, since it took five miles before an expert cyclist couldovertake them. Yet we survey the ground round the scene of thetragedy. What do we find? A few cattle-tracks, nothing more. I tooka wide sweep round, and there is no path within fifty yards. Anothercyclist could have had nothing to do with the actual murder, norwere there any human footmarks."

　　"Holmes," I cried, "this is impossible."

　　"Admirable!" he said. "A most illuminating remark. It isimpossible as I state it, and therefore I must in some respect havestated it wrong. Yet you saw for yourself. Can you suggest anyfallacy?"

　　"He could not have fractured his skull in a fall?"

　　"In a morass, Watson?"

　　"I am at my wit's end."

　　"Tut, tut, we have solved some worse problems. At least we haveplenty of material, if we can only use it. Come, then, and, havingexhausted the Palmer, let us see what the Dunlop with the patchedcover has to offer us."

　　We picked up the track and followed it onward for some distance, butsoon the moor rose into a long, heather-tufted curve, and we leftthe watercourse behind us. No further help from tracks could beboped for. At the spot where we saw the last of the Dunlop tyre itmight equally have led to Holdernesse Hall, the stately towers ofwhich rose some miles to our left, or to a low, gray village which layin front of us and marked the position of the Chesterfield high road.As we approached the forbidding and squalid inn, with the sign ofa game-cock above the door, Holmes gave a sudden groan, and clutchedme by the shoulder to save himself from falling. He had had one ofthose violent strains of the ankle which leave a man helpless. Withdifficulty he limped up to the door, where a squat, dark, elderlyman was smoking a black clay pipe.

　　"How are you, Mr. Reuben Hayes?" said Holmes.

　　"Who are you, and how do you get my name so pat?" the countrymananswered, with a suspicious flash of a pair of cunning eyes."Well, it's printed on the board above your head. It's easy to see aman who is master of his own house. I suppose you haven't such a thingas a carriage in your stables?"

　　"No, I have not."

　　"I can hardly put my foot to the ground."

　　"Don't put it to the ground."

　　"But I can't walk."

　　"Well, then hop."

　　Mr. Reuben Hayes's manner was far from gracious, but Holmes tookit with admirable good-humour.

　　"Look here, my man," said he. "This is really rather an awkwardfix for me. I don't mind how I get on."

　　"Neither do I," said the morose landlord.

　　"The matter is very important. I would offer you a sovereign for theuse of a bicycle."

　　The landlord pricked up his ears.

　　"Where do you want to go?"

　　"To Holdernesse Hall."

　　"Pals of the Dook, I suppose?" said the landlord, surveying ourmud-stained garments with ironical eyes.

　　Holmes laughed good-naturedly.

　　"He'll be glad to see us, anyhow."

　　"Why?"

　　"Because we bring him news of his lost son."

　　The landlord gave a very visible start.

　　"What, you're on his track?"

　　"He has been heard of in Liverpool. They expect to get him everyhour."

　　Again a swift change passed over the heavy, unshaven face. Hismanner was suddenly genial.

　　"I've less reason to wish the Dook well than most men," said he,"for I was head coachman once, and cruel bad he treated me. It was himthat sacked me without a character on the word of a lyingcorn-chandler. But I'm glad to hear that the young lord was heard ofin Liverpool, and I'll help you to take the news to the Hall.""Thank you," said Holmes. "Well have some food first. then you canbring round the bicycle."

　　"I haven't got a bicycle."

　　Holmes held up a sovereign.

　　"I tell you, man, that I haven't got one. I'll let you have twohorses as far as the Hall."

　　"Well, well," said Holmes, "well talk about it when we've hadsomething to eat."

　　When we were left alone in the stone-flagged kitchen, it wasastonishing how rapidly that sprained ankle recovered. It was nearlynightfall, and we had eaten nothing since early morning, so that wespent some time over our meal. Holmes was lost in thought, and once ortwice he walked over to the window and stared earnestly out. It openedon to a squalid courtyard. In the far corner was a smithy, where agrimy lad was at work. On the other side were the stables. Holmeshad sat down again after one of these excursions, when he suddenlysprang out of his chair with a loud exclamation.

　　"By heaven, Watson, I believe that I've got it!" he cried. "Yes,yes, it must be so. Watson, do you remember seeing any cow-tracksto-day?"

　　"Yes, several."

　　"Were?"

　　"Well, everywhere. They were at the morass, and again on the path,and again near where poor Heidegger met his death."

　　"Exactly. Well, now, Watson, how many cows did you see on the moor?""I don't remember seeing any."

　　"Strange, Watson, that we should see tracks all along our line,but never a cow on the whole moor. Very strange, Watson, eh?""Yes, it is strange."

　　"Now, Watson, make an effort, throw your mind back. Can you seethose tracks upon the path?"

　　"Yes, I can."

　　"Can you recall that the tracks were sometimes like that, Watson"-he arranged a number of bread-crumbs in this fashion- : : : :- "andsometimes like this"- :.:.:.:.- "and occasionally like this"-..'.'.'. "Can you remember that?"

　　"No, I cannot."

　　"But I can. I could swear to it. However, we will go back at ourleisure and verify it. What a blind beetle I have been, not to draw myconclusion."

　　"And what is your conclusion?"

　　"Only that it is a remarkable cow which walks, canters, and gallops.By George! Watson, it was no brain of a country publican thatthought out such a blind as that. The coast seems to be clear, savefor that lad in the smithy. Let us slip out and see what we can see."There were two rough-haired, unkempt horses in the tumble-downstable. Holmes raised the hind leg of one of them and laughed aloud."Old shoes, but newly shod-old shoes, but new nails. This casedeserves to be a classic. Let us go across to the smithy."The lad continued his work without regarding us. I saw Holmes'seye darting to right and left among the litter of iron and woodwhich was scattered about the floor. Suddenly, however, we heard astep behind us, and there was the landlord, his heavy eyebrows drawnover his savage eyes, his swarthy features convulsed with passion.He held a short, metal-headed stick in his hand, and he advanced in somenacing a fashion that I was right glad to feel the revolver in mypocket.

　　"You infernal spies!" the man cried. "What are you doing there?""Why, Mr. Reuben Hayes," said Holmes, coolly, "one might thinkthat you were afraid of our finding something out."

　　The man mastered himself with a violent effort, and his grim mouthloosened into a false laugh, which was more menacing than his frown."You're welcome to all you can find out in my smithy," said he. "Butlook here, mister, I don't care for folk poking about my place withoutmy leave, so the sooner you pay your score and get out of this thebetter I shall be pleased."

　　"All right, Mr. Hayes, no harm meant," said Holmes. "We have beenhaving a look at your horses, but I think I'll walk, after all. It'snot far, I believe."

　　"Not more than two miles to the Hall gates. That's the road to theleft." He watched us with sullen eyes until we had left his premises.We did not go very far along the road, for Holmes stopped theinstant that the curve hid us from the landlord's view."We were warm, as the children say, at that inn," said he. "I seemto grow colder every step that I take away from it. No, no, I can'tpossibly leave it."

　　"I am convinced," said I, "that this Reuben Hayes knows all aboutit. A more self-evident villain I never saw."

　　"Oh! he impressed you in that way, did he? There are the horses,there is the smithy. Yes, it is an interesting place, this FightingCock. I think we shall have another look at it in an unobtrusive way."A long, sloping hillside, dotted with gray limestone boulders,stretched behind us. We had turned off the road, and were making ourway up the hill, when, looking in the direction of Holdernesse Hall, Isaw a cyclist coming swiftly along.

　　"Get down, Watson!" cried Holmes, with a heavy hand upon myshoulder. We had hardly sunk from view when the man flew past us onthe road. Amid a rolling cloud of dust, I caught a glimpse of apale, agitated face- a face with horror in every lineament, themouth open, the eyes staring wildly in front. It was like some strangecaricature of the dapper James Wilder whom we had seen the nightbefore.

　　"The Duke's secretary!" cried Holmes. "Come, Watson, let us see whathe does."

　　We scrambled from rock to rock, until in a few moments we had madeour way to a point from which we could see the front door of theinn. Wilder's bicycle was leaning against the wall beside it. No onewas moving about the house, nor could we catch a glimpse of anyfaces at the windows. Slowly the twilight crept down as the sun sankbehind the high towers of Holdernesse Hall. Then, in the gloom, we sawthe two side-lamps of a trap light up in the stable-yard of the inn,and shortly afterwards heard the rattle of hoofs, as it wheeled outinto the road and tore off at a furious pace in the direction ofChesterfield.

　　"What do you make of that, Watson?" Holmes whispered.

　　"It looks like a flight."

　　"A single man in a dog-cart, so far as I could see. Well, itcertainly was not Mr. James Wilder, for there he is at the door."A red square of light had sprung out of the darkness. In themiddle of it was the black figure of the secretary, his head advanced,peering out into the night. It was evident that he was expectingsomeone. Then at last there were steps in the road, a second figurewas visible for an instant against the light, the door shut, and allwas black once more. Five minutes later a lamp was lit in a roomupon the first floor.

　　"It seems to be a curious class of custom that is done by theFighting Cock," said Holmes.

　　"The bar is on the other side."

　　"Quite so. These are what one may call the private guests. Now, whatin the world is Mr. James Wilder doing in that den at this hour ofnight, and who is the companion who comes to meet him there? Come,Watson, we must really take a risk and try to investigate this alittle more closely."

　　Together we stole down to the road and crept across to the door ofthe inn. The bicycle still leaned against the wall. Holmes struck amatch and held it to the back wheel, and I heard him chuckle as thelight fell upon a patched Dunlop tyre. Up above us was the lightedwindow.

　　"I must have a peep through that, Watson. If you bend your backand support yourself upon the wall, I think that I can manage."An instant later, his feet were on my shoulders, but he was hardlyup before he was down again.

　　"Come, my friend," said he, "our day's work has been quite longenough. I think that we have gathered all that we can. It's a longwalk to the school, and the sooner we get started the better."He hardly opened his lips during that weary trudge across themoor, nor would he enter the school when he reached it, but went on toMackleton Station, whence he could send some telegrams. Late atnight I heard him consoling Dr. Huxtable, prostrated by the tragedy ofhis master's death, and later still he entered my room as alert andvigorous as he had been when he started in the morning. "All goeswell, my friend," said he. "I promise that before to-morrow evening weshall have reached the solution of the mystery."

　　At eleven o'clock next morning my friend and I were walking up thefamous yew avenue of Holdernesse Hall. We were ushered through themagnificent Elizabethan doorway and into his Grace's study. There wefound Mr. James Wilder, demure and courtly, but with some trace ofthat wild terror of the night before still lurking in his furtive eyesand in his twitching features.

　　"You have come to see his Grace? I am sorry, but the fact is thatthe Duke is far from well. He has been very much upset by the tragicnews. We received a telegram from Dr. Huxtable yesterday afternoon,which told us of your discovery."

　　"I must see the Duke, Mr. Wilder."

　　"But he is in his room."

　　"Then I must go to his room."

　　"I believe he is in his bed."

　　"I will see him there."

　　Holmes's cold and inexorable manner showed the secretary that it wasuseless to argue with him.

　　"Very good, Mr. Holmes, I will tell him that you are here."After an hour's delay, the great nobleman appeared. His face wasmore cadaverous than ever, his shoulders had rounded, and he seemed tome to be an altogether older man than he had been the morningbefore. He greeted us with a stately courtesy and seated himself athis desk, his red beard streaming down on the table.

　　"Well, Mr. Holmes?" said he.

　　But my friend's eyes were fixed upon the secretary, who stood by hismaster's chair.

　　"I think, your Grace, that I could speak more freely in Mr. Wilder'sabsence."

　　The man turned a shade paler and cast a malignant glance at Holmes."If your Grace wishes-"

　　"Yes, yes, you had better go. Now, Mr. Holmes, what have you tosay?"

　　My friend waited until the door had closed behind the retreatingsecretary.

　　"The fact is, your Grace," said he, "that my colleague, Dr.Watson, and myself had an assurance from Dr. Huxtable that a rewardhad been offered in this case. I should like to have this confirmedfrom your own lips."

　　"Certainly, Mr. Holmes."

　　"It amounted, if I am correctly informed, to five thousand pounds toanyone who will tell you where your son is?"

　　"Exactly."

　　"And another thousand to the man who will name the person or personswho keep him in custody?"

　　"Exactly."

　　"Under the latter heading is included, no doubt, not only thosewho may have taken him away, but also those who conspire to keep himin his present position?"

　　"Yes, yes," cried the Duke, impatiently. "If you do your workwell, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, you will have no reason to complain ofniggardly treatment."

　　My friend rubbed his thin hands together with an appearance ofavidity which was a surprise to me, who knew his frugal tastes."I fancy that I see your Grace's check-book upon the table," saidhe. "I should be glad if you would make me out a check for sixthousand pounds. It would be as well, perhaps, for you to cross it.The Capital and Counties Bank, Oxford Street branch are my agents."His Grace sat very stern and upright in his chair and looked stonilyat my friend.

　　"Is this a joke, Mr. Holmes? It is hardly a subject for pleasantry.""Not at all, your Grace. I was never more earnest in my life.""What do you mean, then?"

　　"I mean that I have earned the reward. I know where your son is, andI know some, at least, of those who are holding him."

　　The Duke's beard had turned more aggressively red than everagainst his ghastly white face.

　　"Where is he?" he gasped.

　　"He is, or was last night, at the Fighting Cock Inn, about two milesfrom your park gate."

　　The Duke fell back in his chair.

　　"And whom do you accuse?"

　　Sherlock Holmes's answer was an astounding one. He stepped swiftlyforward and touched the Duke upon the shoulder.

　　"I accuse you," said he. "And now, your Grace, I'll trouble youfor that check."

　　Never shall I forget the Duke's appearance as he sprang up andclawed with his hands, like one who is sinking into an abyss. Then,with an extraordinary effort of aristocratic self-command, he sat downand sank his face in his hands. It some minutes before he spoke."How much do you know?" he asked at last, without raising his head."I saw you together last night."

　　"Does anyone else beside your friend know?"

　　"I have spoken to no one."

　　The Duke took a pen in his quivering fingers and opened hischeck-book.

　　"I shall be as good as my word, Mr. Holmes. I am about to write yourcheck, however unwelcome the information which you have gained maybe to me. When the offer was first made, I little thought the turnwhich events might take. But you and your friend are men ofdiscretion, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"I hardly understand your Grace."

　　"I must put it plainly, Mr. Holmes. If only you two know of thisincident, there is no reason why it should go any farther. I thinktwelve thousand pounds is the sum that I owe you, is it not?"But Holmes smiled and shook his head.

　　"I fear, your Grace, that matters can hardly be arranged soeasily. There is the death of this schoolmaster to be accounted for.""But James knew nothing of that. You cannot hold him responsible forthat. It was the work of this brutal ruffian whom he had themisfortune to employ."

　　"I must take the view, your Grace, that when a man embarks upon acrime, he is morally guilty of any other crime which may spring fromit."

　　"Morally, Mr. Holmes. No doubt you are right. But surely not inthe eyes of the law. A man cannot be condemned for a murder at whichhe was not present, and which he loathes and abhors as much as you do.The instant that he heard of it he made a complete confession to me,so filled was he with horror and remorse. He lost not an hour inbreaking entirely with the murderer. Oh, Mr. Holmes, you must savehim- you must save him! I tell you that you must save him!" The Dukehad dropped the last attempt at self-command, and was pacing theroom with a convulsed face and with his clenched hands raving in theair. At last he mastered himself and sat down once more at his desk."I appreciate your conduct in coming here before you spoke to anyoneelse," said he. "At least, we may take counsel how far we can minimizethis hideous scandal."

　　"Exactly," said Holmes. "I think, your Grace, that this can onlybe done by absolute frankness between us. I am disposed to help yourGrace to the best of my ability, but, in order to do so, I mustunderstand to the last detail how the matter stands. I realize thatyour words applied to Mr. James Wilder, and that he is not themurderer."

　　"No, the murderer has escaped."

　　Sherlock Holmes smiled demurely.

　　"Your Grace can hardly have heard of any small reputation which Ipossess, or you would not imagine that it is so easy to escape me. Mr.Reuben Hayes was arrested at Chesterfield, on my information, ateleven o'clock last night. I had a telegram from the head of the localpolice before I left the school this morning."

　　The Duke leaned back in his chair and stared with amazement at myfriend.

　　"You seem to have powers that are hardly human," said he. "So ReubenHayes is taken? I am right glad to hear it, if it will not reactupon the fate of James."

　　"Your secretary?"

　　"No, sir, my son."

　　It was Holmes's turn to look astonished.

　　"I confess that this is entirely new to me, your Grace. I must begyou to be more explicit."

　　"I will conceal nothing from you. I agree with you that completefrankness, however painful it may be to me, is the best policy in thisdesperate situation to which James's folly and jealousy have reducedus. When I was a very young man, Mr. Holmes, I loved with such alove as comes only once in a lifetime. I offered the lady marriage,but she refused it on the grounds that such a match might mar mycareer. Had she lived, I would certainly never have married anyoneelse. She died, and left this one child, whom for her sake I havecherished and cared for. I could not acknowledge the paternity tothe world, but I gave him the best of educations, and since he came tomanhood I have kept him near my person. He surprised my secret, andhas presumed ever since upon the claim which he has upon me, andupon his power of provoking a scandal which would be abhorrent tome. His presence had something to do with the unhappy issue of mymarriage. Above all, he hated my young legitimate heir from thefirst with a persistent hatred. You may well ask me why, under thesecircumstances, I still kept James under my roof. I answer that itwas because I could see his mother's face in his, and that for herdear sake there was no end to my long-suffering. All her pretty waystoo- there was not one of them which he could not suggest and bringback to my memory. I could not send him away. But I feared so muchlest he should do Arthur- that is, Lord Saltire- a mischief, that Idispatched him for safety to Dr. Huxtable's school.

　　"James came into contact with this fellow Hayes, because the man wasa tenant of mine, and James acted as agent. The fellow was a rascalfrom the beginning, but, in some extraordinary way, James becameintimate with him. He had always a taste for low company. When Jamesdetermined to kidnap Lord Saltire, it was of this man's service thathe availed himself. You remember that I wrote to Arthur upon that lastday. Well, James opened the letter and inserted a note asking Arthurto meet him in a little wood called the Ragged Shaw, which is nearto the school. He used the Duchess's name, and in that way got the boyto come. That evening James bicycled over- I am telling you what hehas himself confessed to me- and he told Arthur, whom he met in thewood, that his mother longed to see him, that she was awaiting himon the moor, and that if he would come back into the wood atmidnight he would find a man with a horse, who would take him toher. Poor Arthur fell into the trap. He came to the appointment, andfound this fellow Hayes with a led pony. Arthur mounted, and theyset off together. It appears- though this James only heardyesterday- that they were pursued, that Hayes struck the pursuerwith his stick, and that the man died of his injuries. Hayes broughtArthur to his public-house, the Fighting Cock, where he was confinedin an upper room, under the care of Mrs. Hayes, who is a kindly woman,but entirely under the control of her brutal husband.

　　"Well, Mr. Holmes, that was the state of affairs when I first sawyou two days ago. I had no more idea of the truth than you. You willask me what was James's motive in doing such a deed. I answer thatthere was a great deal which was unreasoning and fanatical in thehatred which he bore my heir. In his view he should himself havebeen heir of all my estates, and he deeply resented those sociallaws which made it impossible. At the same time, he had a definitemotive also. He was eager that I should break the entail, and he wasof opinion that it lay in my power to do so. He intended to make abargain with me- to restore Arthur if I would break the entail, and somake it possible for the estate to be left to him by will. He knewwell that I should never willingly invoke the aid of the policeagainst him. I say that he would have proposed such a bargain to me,but he did not actually do so, for events moved too quickly for,him, and he had not time to put his plans into practice."What brought all his wicked scheme to wreck was your discovery ofthis man Heidegger's dead body. James was seized with horror at thenews. It came to us yesterday, as we sat together in this study. Dr.Huxtable had sent a telegram. James was so overwhelmed with griefand agitation that my suspicions, which had never been entirely absentrose instantly to a certainty, and I taxed him with the deed. Hemade a complete voluntary confession. Then he implored me to keephis secret for three days longer, so as to give his wretchedaccomplice a chance of saving his guilty life. I yielded- as I havealways yielded- to his prayers, and instantly James hurried off to theFighting Cock to warn Hayes and give him the means of flight. Icould not go there by daylight without provoking comment, but assoon as night fell I hurried off to see my dear Arthur. I found himsafe and well, but horrified beyond expression by the dreadful deed hehad witnessed. In deference to my promise, and much against my will, Iconsented to leave him there for three days, under the charge ofMrs. Hayes, since it was evident that it was impossible to informthe police where he was without telling them also who was themurderer, and I could not see how that murderer could be punishedwithout ruin to my unfortunate James. You asked for frankness, Mr.Holmes, and I have taken you at your word, for I have now told youeverything without an attempt at circumlocution or concealment. Do youin turn be as frank with me."

　　"I will," said Holmes. "In the first place, your Grace, I am boundto tell you that you have placed yourself in a most serious positionin the eyes of the law. You have condoned a felony, and you have aidedthe escape of a murderer, for I cannot doubt that any money whichwas taken by James Wilder to aid his accomplice in his flight camefrom your Grace's purse."

　　The Duke bowed his assent.

　　"This is, indeed, a most serious matter. Even more culpable in myopinion, your Grace, is your attitude towards your younger son. Youleave him in this den for three days."

　　"Under solemn promises-"

　　"What are promises to such people as these? You have no guaranteethat he will not be spirited away again. To humour your guilty elderson, you have exposed your innocent younger son to imminent andunnecessary danger. It was a most unjustifiable action."The proud lord of Holdernesse was not accustomed to be so rated inhis own ducal hall. The blood flushed into his high forehead, buthis conscience held him dumb.

　　"I will help you, but on one condition only. It is that you ring forthe footman and let me give such orders as I like."

　　Without a word, the Duke pressed the electric bell. A servantentered.

　　"You will be glad to hear," said Holmes, "that your young masteris found. It is the Duke's desire that the carriage shall go at onceto the Fighting Cock Inn to bring Lord Saltire home.

　　"Now," said Holmes, when the rejoicing lackey had disappeared,"having secured the future, we can afford to be more lenient withthe past. I am not in an official position, and there is no reason, solong as the ends of justice are served, why I should disclose all thatI know. As to Hayes, I say nothing. The gallows awaits him, and Iwould do nothing to save him from it. What he will divulge I cannottell, but I have no doubt that your Grace could make him understandthat it is to his interest to be silent. From the police point of viewhe will have kidnapped the boy for the purpose of ransom. If they donot themselves find it out, I see no reason why I should prompt themto take a broader point of view. I would warn your Grace, however,that the continued presence of Mr. James Wilder in your householdcan only lead to misfortune."

　　"I understand that, Mr. Holmes, and it is already settled that heshall leave me forever, and go to seek his fortune in Australia.""In that case, your Grace, since you have yourself stated that anyunhappiness in your married life was caused by his presence I wouldsuggest that you make such amends as you can to the Duchess, andthat you try to resume those relations which have been so unhappilyinterrupted."

　　"That also I have arranged, Mr. Holmes. I wrote to the Duchessthis morning."

　　"In that case," said Holmes, rising, "I think that my friend and Ican congratulate ourselves upon several most happy results from ourlittle visit to the North. There is one other small point upon which Idesire some light. This fellow Hayes had shod his horses with shoeswhich counterfeited the tracks of cows. Was it from Mr. Wilder that helearned so extraordinary a device?"

　　The Duke stood in thought for a moment, with a look of intensesurprise on his face. Then he opened a door and showed us into a largeroom furnished as a museum. He led the way to a glass case in acorner, and pointed to the inscription.

　　"These shoes," it ran, "were dug up in the moat of Holdernesse Hall.They are for the use of horses, but they are shaped below with acloven foot of iron, so as to throw pursuers off the track. They aresupposed to have belonged to some of the marauding Barons ofHoldernesse in the Middle Ages."

　　Holmes opened the case, and moistening his finger he passed it alongthe shoe. A thin film of recent mud was left upon his skin."Thank you," said he, as he replaced the glass. "It is the secondmost interesting object that I have seen in the North.""And the first?"

　　Holmes folded up his check and placed it carefully in hisnotebook. "I am a poor man," said he, as he patted it

　　affectionately, and thrust it into the depths of his inner pocket.-THE END-

　　.

　　1911

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE RED CIRCLE

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　"Well, Mrs. Warren, I cannot see that you have any particularcause for uneasiness, nor do I understand why I, whose time is of somevalue, should interfere in the matter. I really have other things toengage me." So spoke Sherlock Holmes and turned back to the greatscrapbook in which he was arranging and indexing some of his recentmaterial.

　　But the landlady had the pertinacity and also the cunning of hersex. She held her ground firmly.

　　"You arranged an affair for a lodger of mine last year," she said-"Mr. Fairdale Hobbs."

　　"Ah, yes- a simple matter."

　　"But he would never cease talking of it- your kindness, sir, and theway in which you brought light into the darkness. I remembered hiswords when I was in doubt and darkness myself. I know you could if youonly would."

　　Holmes was accessible upon the side of flattery, and also, to do himjustice, upon the side of kindliness. The two forces made him lay downhis gum-brush with a sigh of resignation and push back his chair."Well, well, Mrs. Warren, let us hear about it then. You don'tobject to tobacco, I take it? Thank you, Watson- the matches! Youare uneasy, as I understand, because your new lodger remains in hisrooms and you cannot see him. Why, bless you, Mrs. Warren, if I wereyour lodger you often would not see me for weeks on end.""No doubt, sir, but this is different. It frightens me, Mr.Holmes. I can't sleep for fright. To hear his quick step moving hereand moving there from early morning to late at night, and yet never tocatch so much as a glimpse of him- it's more than I can stand. Myhusband is as nervous over it as I am, but he is out at his work allday, while I get no rest from it. What is he hiding for? What has hedone? Except for the girl, I am all alone in the house with him, andit's more than my nerves can stand."

　　Holmes leaned forward and laid his long, thin fingers upon thewoman's shoulder. He had an almost hypnotic power of soothing whenhe wished. The scared look faded from her eyes, and her agitatedfeatures smoothed into their usual commonplace. She sat down in thechair which he had indicated.

　　"If I take it up I must understand every detail," said he. "Taketime to consider. The smallest point may be the most essential. Yousay that the man came ten days ago and paid you for a fortnight'sboard and lodging?"

　　"He asked my terms, sir. I said fifty shillings a week. There is asmall sittingroom and bedroom, and all complete, at the top of thehouse."

　　"Well?"

　　"He said, 'I'll pay you five pounds a week if I can have it on myown terms.' I'm a poor woman, sir, and Mr. Warren earns little, andthe money meant much to me. He took out a ten-pound note, and heheld it out to me then and there. 'You can have the same everyfortnight for a long time to come if you keep the terms,' he said. 'Ifnot, I'll have no more to do with you.'"

　　"What were the terms?"

　　"Well, sir, they were that he was to have a key of the house. Thatwas all right. Lodgers often have them. Also, that he was to be leftentirely to himself and never, upon any excuse, to be disturbed.""Nothing wonderful in that, surely?"

　　"Not in reason, sir. But this is out of all reason. He has beenthere for ten days, and neither Mr. Warren, nor I, nor the girl hasonce set eyes upon him. We can hear that quick step of his pacing upand down, up and down, night, morning, and noon; but except on thatfirst night he has never once gone out of the house."

　　"Oh, he went out the first night, did he?"

　　"Yes, sir, and returned very late- after we were all in bed. He toldme after he had taken the rooms that he would do so and asked me notto bar the door. I heard him come up the stair after midnight.""But his meals?"

　　"It was his particular direction that we should always, when herang, leave his meal upon a chair, outside his door. Then he ringsagain when he has finished, and we take it down from the same chair.If he wants anything else he prints it on a slip of paper and leavesit."

　　"Prints it?"

　　"Yes, sir, prints it in pencil. just the word, nothing more.Here's one I brought to show you- SOAP. Here's another- MATCH. This isone he left the first morning- DAILY GAZETTE. I leave that paperwith his breakfast every morning."

　　"Dear me, Watson," said Holmes, staring with great curiosity atthe slips of foolscap which the landlady had handed to him, "this iscertainly a little unusual. Seclusion I can understand; but why print?Printing is a clumsy process. Why not write? What would it suggestWatson?"

　　"That he desired to conceal his handwriting."

　　"But why? What can it matter to him that his landlady should havea word of his writing? Still, it may be as you say. Then, again, whysuch laconic messages?"

　　"I cannot imagine."

　　"It opens a pleasing field for intelligent speculation. The wordsare written with a broad-pointed, violet-tinted pencil of a notunusual pattern. You will observe that the paper is torn away at theside here after the printing was done, so that the 'S' of 'SOAP' ispartly gone. Suggestive, Watson, is it not?"

　　"Of caution?"

　　"Exactly. There was evidently some mark, some thumbprint,something which might give a clue to the person's identity. Now,Mrs. Warren, you say that the man was of middle size, dark, andbearded. What age would he be?"

　　"Youngish, sir- not over thirty."

　　"Well, can you give me no further indications?"

　　"He spoke good English, sir, and yet I thought he was a foreigner byhis accent."

　　"And he was well dressed?"

　　"Very smartly dressed, sir- quite the gentleman. Dark clothes-nothing you would note."

　　"He gave no name?"

　　"No, sir."

　　"And has had no letters or callers?"

　　"None."

　　"But surely you or the girl enter his room of a morning?""No, sir; he looks after himself entirely."

　　"Dear me! that is certainly remarkable. What about his luggage?""He had one big brown bag with him- nothing else."

　　"Well, we don't seem to have much material to help us. Do you saynothing has come out of that room- absolutely nothing?"The landlady drew an envelope from her bag, from it she shook outtwo burnt matches and a cigarette-end upon the table.

　　"They were on his tray this morning. I brought them because I hadheard that you can read great things out of small ones."Holmes shrugged his shoulders.

　　"There is nothing here," said he. "The matches have, of course, beenused to light cigarettes. That is obvious from the shortness of theburnt end. Half the match is consumed in lighting a pipe or cigar. Butdear me! this cigarette stub is certainly remarkable. The gentlemanwas bearded and moustached, you say?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"I don't understand that. I should say that only a clean-shavenman could have smoked this. Why, Watson, even your modest moustachewould have been singed."

　　"A holder?" I suggested.

　　"No, no; the end is matted. I suppose there could not be twopeople in your rooms, Mrs. Warren?"

　　"No, sir. He eats so little that I often wonder it can keep lifein one."

　　"Well, I think we must wait for a little more material. After all,you have nothing to complain of. You have received your rent and he isnot a troublesome lodger, though he is certainly an unusual one. Hepays you well. and if he choses to lie concealed it is no directbusiness of yours. We have no excuse for an intrusion upon his privacyuntil we have some reason to think that there is a guilty reason forit. I've taken up the matter, and I won't lose sight of it. Reportto me if anything fresh occurs, and rely upon my assistance if itshould be needed.

　　"There are certainly some points of interest in this case,Watson," he remarked when the landlady had left us. "It may, ofcourse, be trivial- individual eccentricity; or it may be very muchdeeper than appears on the surface. The first thing that strikes oneis the obvious possibility that the person now in the rooms may beentirely different from the one who engaged them."

　　"Why should you think so?"

　　"Well, apart from this cigarette-end, was it not suggestive that theonly time the lodger went out was immediately after his taking therooms? He came back- or someone came back- when all witnesses were outof the way. We have no proof that the person who came back was theperson who went out. Then, again, the man who took the rooms spokeEnglish well. This other, however, prints 'match' when it shouldhave been 'matches.' I can imagine that the word was taken out of adictionary, which would give the noun but not the plural. Thelaconic style may be to conceal the absence of knowledge of English.Yes, Watson, there are good reasons to suspect that there has been asubstitution of lodgers."

　　"But for what possible end?"

　　"Ah! there lies our problem. There is one rather obvious line ofinvestigation." He took down the great book in which, day by day, hefiled the agony columns of the various London journals. "Dear me!"said he, turning over the pages, "what a chorus of groans, cries,and bleatings! What a rag-bag of singular happenings! But surely themost valuable hunting-ground that ever was given to a student of theunusual! This person is alone and cannot be approached by letterwithout a breach of that absolute secrecy which is desired. How is anynews or any message to reach him from without? Obviously byadvertisement through a news paper. There seems no other way, andfortunately we need concern ourselves with the one paper only. Hereare the Daily Gazette extracts of the last fortnight. 'Lady with ablack boa at Prince's Skating Club'- that we may pass. 'Surely Jimmywill not break his mother's heart'- that appears to be irrelevant. 'Ifthe lady who fainted in the Brixton bus'- she does not interest me.'Every day my heart longs-' Bleat, Watson- unmitigated bleat! Ah, thisis a little more possible. Listen to this: 'Be patient. Will find somesure means of communication. Meanwhile, this column. G.' That is twodays after Mrs. Warren's lodger arrived. It sounds plausible, doesit not? The mysterious one could understand English, even if hecould not print it. Let us see if we can pick up the trace again. Yes,here we are- three days later. 'Am making successful arrangements.Patience and prudence. The clouds will pass. G.' Nothing for a weekafter that. Then comes something much more definite: 'The path isclearing. If I find chance signal message remember code agreed- one A,two B, and so on. You will hear soon. G.' That was in yesterday'spaper, and there is nothing in to-day's. It's all very appropriateto Mrs. Warren's lodger. If we wait a little, Watson, I don't doubtthat the affair will grow more intelligible."

　　So it proved; for in the morning I found my friend standing on thehearthrug with his back to the fire and a smile of completesatisfaction upon his face.

　　"How's this, Watson?" he cried, picking up the paper from the table.'High red house with white stone facings. Third floor. Second windowleft. After dusk. G.' That is definite enough. I think after breakfastwe must make a little reconnaissance of Mrs. Warren's neighbourhood.Ah, Mrs. Warren! what news do you bring us this morning?"Our client had suddenly burst into the room with an explosive energywhich told of some new and momentous development.

　　"It's a police matter, Mr. Holmes" she cried. "I'll have no moreof it. He shall pack out of there with his baggage. I would havegone straight up and told him so, only I thought it was but fair toyou to take your opinion first. But I'm at the end of my patience, andwhen it comes to knocking my old man about-"

　　"Knocking Mr. Warren about?"

　　"Using him roughly, anyway."

　　"But who used him roughly?"

　　"Ah! that's what we want to know! It was this morning, sir. Mr.Warren is a timekeeper at Morton and Waylight's, in Tottenham CourtRoad. He has to be out of the house before seven. Well, this morninghe had not gone ten paces down the road when two men came up behindhim, threw a coat over his head, and bundled him into a cab that wasbeside the curb. They drove him an hour, and then opened the doorand shot him out. He lay in the roadway so shaken in his wits thathe never saw what became of the cab. When he picked himself up hefound he was on Hampstead Heath; so he took a bus home, and there helies now on the sofa, while I came straight round to tell you what hadhappened."

　　"Most interesting," said Holmes. "Did he observe the appearance ofthese men- did he hear them talk?"

　　"No; he is clean dazed. He just knows that he was lifted up as if bymagic and dropped as if by magic. Two at least were in it, and maybethree."

　　"And you connect this attack with your lodger?"

　　"Well, we've lived there fifteen years and no such happenings evercame before. I've had enough of him. Money's not everything. I'll havehim out of my house before the day is done."

　　"Wait a bit, Mrs. Warren. Do nothing rash. I begin to think thatthis affair may be very much more important than appeared at firstsight. It is clear now that some danger is threatening your lodger. Itis equally clear that his enemies, lying in wait for him near yourdoor, mistook your husband for him in the foggy morning light. Ondiscovering their mistake they released him. What they would have donehad it not been a mistake, we can only conjecture."

　　"Well, what am I to do, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"I have a great fancy to see this lodger of yours, Mrs. Warren.""I don't see how that is to be managed, unless you break in thedoor. I always hear him unlock it as I go down the stair after I leavethe tray."

　　"He has to take the tray in. Surely we could conceal ourselves andsee him do it."

　　The landlady thought for a moment.

　　"Well, sir, there's the box-room opposite. I could arrange alooking-glass, maybe, and if you were behind the door-""Excellent!" said Holmes. "When does he lunch?"

　　"About one, sir."

　　"Then Dr. Watson and I will come round in time. For the present,Mrs. Warren, good-bye."

　　At half-past twelve we found ourselves upon the steps of Mrs.Warren's house- a high, thin, yellow-brick edifice in Great OrmeStreet, a narrow thoroughfare at the northeast side of the BritishMuseum. Standing as it does near the corner of the street, it commandsa view down Howe Street, with its more pretentious houses. Holmespointed with a chuckle to one of these, a row of residential flats,which projected so that they could not fail to catch the eye."See, Watson!" said he. "'High red house with stone facings.'There is the signal station all right. We know the place, and weknow the code; so surely our task should be simple. There's a 'to let'card in that window. It is evidently an empty flat to which theconfederate has access. Well, Mrs. Warren, what now?"

　　"I have it all ready for you. If you will both come up and leaveyour boots below on the landing, I'll put you there now."It was an excellent hiding-place which she had arranged. Themirror was so placed that, seated in the dark, we could very plainlysee the door opposite. We had hardly settled down in it, and Mrs.Warren left us, when a distant tinkle announced that our mysteriousneighbour had rung. Presently the landlady appeared with the tray,laid it down upon a chair beside the closed door, and then, treadingheavily, departed. Crouching together in the angle of the door, wekept our eyes fixed upon the mirror. Suddenly, as the landlady'sfootsteps died away, there was the creak of a turning key, the handlerevolved, and two thin hands darted out and lifted the tray from thechair. An instant later it was hurriedly replaced, and I caught aglimpse of a dark, beautiful, horrified face glaring at the narrowopening of the box-room. Then the door crashed to, the key turned oncemore, and all was silence. Holmes twitched my sleeve, and togetherwe stole down the stair.

　　"I will call again in the evening," said he to the expectantlandlady. "I think, Watson, we can discuss this business better in ourown quarters."

　　"My surmise, as you saw, proved to be correct," said he, speakingfrom the depths of his easy-chair. "There has been a substitution oflodgers. What I did not foresee is that we should find a woman, and noordinary woman, Watson."

　　"She saw us."

　　"Well, she saw something to alarm her. That is certain. Thegeneral sequence of events is pretty clear, is it not? A couple seekrefuge in London from a very terrible and instant danger. Themeasure of that danger is the rigour of their precautions. The man,who has some work which he must do, desires to leave the woman inabsolute safety while he does it. It is not an easy problem, but hesolved it in an original fashion, and so effectively that her presencewas not even known to tile landlady who supplies her with food. Theprinted messages, as is now evident, were to prevent her sex beingdiscovered by her writing. The man cannot come near the woman, or hewill guide their enemies to her. Since he cannot communicate withher direct, he has recourse to the agony column of a paper. So far allis clear."

　　"But what is at the root of it?"

　　"Ah, yes, Watson- severely practical, as usual! What is at theroot of it all? Mrs. Warren's whimsical problem enlarges somewhatand assumes a more sinister aspect as we proceed. This much we cansay: that it is no ordinary love escapade. You saw the woman's face atthe sign of danger. We have heard, too, of the attack upon thelandlord, which was undoubtedly meant for the lodger. These alarms,and the desperate need for secrecy, argue that the matter is one oflife or death. The attack upon Mr. Warren further shows that theenemy, whoever they are, are themselves not aware of thesubstitution of the female lodger for the male. It is very curious andcomplex, Watson."

　　"Why should you go further in it? What have you to gain from it?""What, indeed? It is art for art's sake, Watson. I suppose whenyou doctored you found yourself studying cases without thought of afee?"

　　"For my education, Holmes."

　　"Education never ends, Watson. It is a series of lessons with thegreatest for the last. This is an instructive case. There is neithermoney nor credit in it, and yet one would wish to tidy it up. Whendusk comes we should find ourselves one stage advanced in ourinvestigation."

　　When we returned to Mrs. Warren's rooms, the gloom of a Londonwinter evening had thickened into one gray curtain, a dead monotone ofcolour, broken only by the sharp yellow squares of the windows and theblurred haloes of the gas-lamps. As we peered from the darkenedsitting-room of the lodging-house, one more dim light glimmered highup through the obscurity.

　　"Someone is moving in that room," said Holmes in a whisper, hisgaunt and cager face thrust forward to the window-pane. "Yes, I cansee his shadow. There he is again! He has a candle in his hand. Now heis peering across. He wants to be sure that she is on the lookout. Nowhe begins to flash. Take the message also, Watson, that we may checkeach other. A single flash- that is A, surely. Now, then. How many didyou make it? Twenty. So did I. That should mean T. AT- that'sintelligible enough! Another T. Surely this is the beginning of asecond word. Now, then- TENTA. Dead stop. That can't be all, Watson?ATTENTA gives no sense. Nor is it any better as three words AT, TEN,TA, unless T. A. are a person's initials. There it goes again!What's that? ATTE- why, it is the same message over again. Curious,Watson, very curious! Now he is off once more! AT- why, he isrepeating it for the third time. ATTENTA three times! How often willbe repeat it? No, that seems to be the finish. He has withdrawn fromthe window. What do you make of it, Watson?"

　　"A cipher message, Holmes."

　　My companion gave a sudden chuckle of comprehension. "And not a veryobscure cipher, Watson," said he. "Why, of course, it is Italian!The A means that it is addressed to a woman. 'Beware! Beware! Beware!'How's that, Watson?"

　　"I believe you have hit it."

　　"Not a doubt of it. It is a very urgent message, thrice repeatedto make it more so. But beware of what? Wait a bit; he is coming tothe window once more."

　　Again we saw the dim silhouette of a crouching man and the whiskof the small flame across the window as the signals were renewed. Theycame more rapidly than before- so rapid that it was hard to followthem.

　　PERICOLO- pericolo- eh, what's that, Watson? 'Danger,' isn't it?Yes, by Jove, it's a danger signal. There he goes again! PERI. Halloa,what on earth-"

　　The light had suddenly gone out, the glimmering square of window haddisappeared, and the third floor formed a dark band round the loftybuilding, with its tiers of shining casements. That last warning cryhad been suddenly cut short. How, and by whom? The same thoughtoccurred on the instant to us both. Holmes sprang up from where hecrouched by the window.

　　"This is serious, Watson," he cried. "There is some devilry goingforward! Why should such a message stop in such a way? I should putScotland Yard in touch with this business- and yet, it is too pressingfor us to leave."

　　"Shall I go for the police?"

　　"We must define the situation a little more clearly. It may bearsome more innocent interpretation. Come, Watson, let us go acrossourselves and see what we can make of it."

　　As we walked rapidly down Howe Street I glanced back at the buildingwhich we had left. There, dimly outlined at the top window, I couldsee the shadow of a head, a woman's head, gazing tensely, rigidly, outinto the night, waiting with breathless suspense for the renewal ofthat interrupted message. At the doorway of the Howe Street flats aman, muffled in a cravat and greatcoat, was leaning against therailing. He started as the hall-light fell upon our faces."Holmes!" he cried.

　　"Why, Gregson!" said my companion as he shook hands with theScotland Yard detective. "Journeys end with lovers' meetings. Whatbrings you here?"

　　"The same reasons that bring you, I expect," said Gregson. "Howyou got on to it I can't imagine."

　　"Different threads, but leading up to the same tangle. I've beentaking the signals."

　　"Signals?"

　　"Yes, from that window. They broke off in the middle. We came overto see the reason. But since it is safe in your hands I see noobject in continuing the business."

　　"Wait a bit!" cried Gregson eagerly. "I'll do you this justice,Mr. Holmes, that I was never in a case yet that I didn't feel strongerfor having you on my side. There's only the one exit to these flats,so we have him safe."

　　"Who is he?"

　　"Well, well, we score over you for once, Mr. Holmes. You must giveus best this time." He struck his stick sharply upon the ground, onwhich a cabman, his whip in his band, sauntered over from afour-wheeler which stood on the far side of the street. "May Iintroduce you to Mr. Sherlock Holmes?" he said to the cabman. Thisis Mr. Leverton, of Pinkerton's American Agency."

　　"The hero of the Long Island cave mystery?" said Holmes. "Sir, Iam pleased to meet you."

　　The American, a quiet, businesslike young man, with a

　　clean-shaven, hatchet face, flushed up at the words of commendation."I am on the trail of my life now, Mr. Holmes," said he. "If I can getGorgiano-"

　　"What! Gorgiano of the Red Circle?"

　　"Oh, he has a European fame, has he? Well, we've learned all abouthim in America. We know he is at the bottom of fifty murders, andyet we have nothing positive we can take him on. I tracked him overfrom New York, and I've been close to him for a week in London,waiting some excuse to get my hand on his collar. Mr. Gregson and Iran him to ground in that big tenement house, and there's only the onedoor, so he can't slip us. There's three folk come out since he wentin, but I'll swear he wasn't one of them."

　　"Mr. Holmes talks of signals," said Gregson. "I expect, as usual, heknows a good deal that we don't."

　　In a few clear words Holmes explained the situation as it hadappeared to us. The American struck his hands together with vexation."He's on to us!" he cried.

　　"Why do you think so?"

　　"Well, it figures out that way, does it not? Here he is, sending outmessages to an accomplice- there are several of his gang in London.Then suddenly, just as by your own account he was telling them thatthere was danger, he broke short off. What could it mean except thatfrom the window he had suddenly either caught sight of us in thestreet, or in some way come to understand how close the danger was,and that he must act right away if he was to avoid it? What do yousuggest, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"That we go up at once and see for ourselves."

　　"But we have no warrant for his arrest."

　　"He is in unoccupied premises under suspicious circumstances,"said Gregson. "That is good enough for the moment. When we have him bythe heels we can see if New York can't help us to keep him. I'lltake the responsibility of arresting him now."

　　Our official detectives may blunder in the matter of intelligence,but never in that of courage. Gregson climbed the stair to arrest thisdesperate murderer with the same absolutely quiet and businesslikebearing with which he would have ascended the official staircase ofScotland Yard. The Pinkerton man had tried to push past him, butGregson had firmly elbowed him back. London dangers were the privilegeof the London force.

　　The door of the left-hand flat upon the third landing was standingajar. Gregson pushed it open. Within all was absolute silence anddarkness. I struck a match and lit the detective's lantern. As I didso, and as the flicker steadied into a flame, we all gave a gasp ofsurprise. On the deal boards of the carpetless floor there wasoutlined a fresh track of blood. The red steps pointed towards usand led away from an inner room, the door of which was closed. Gregsonflung it open and held his light full blaze in front of him, whilewe all peered eagerly over his shoulders.

　　In the middle of the floor of the empty room was huddled thefigure of an enormous man, his clean-shaven, swarthy facegrotesquely horrible in its contortion and his head encircled by aghastly crimson halo of blood, lying in a broad wet circle upon thewhite woodwork. His knees were drawn up, his hands thrown out inagony, and from the centre of his broad, brown, upturned throatthere projected the white haft of a knife driven blade-deep into hisbody. Giant as he was, the man must have gone down like a pole-axed oxbefore that terrific blow. Beside his right hand a most formidablehorn-handled, two-edged dagger lay upon the floor, and near it a blackkid glove.

　　"By George! it's Black Gorgiano himself!" cried the Americandetective. "Someone has got ahead of us this time."

　　Here is the candle in the window, Mr. Holmes," said Gregson. "Why,whatever are you doing?"

　　Holmes had stepped across, had lit the candle, and was passing itbackward and forward across the window-panes. Then he peered intothe darkness, blew the candle out, and threw it on the floor."I rather think that will be helpful," said he. He came over andstood in deep thought while the two professionals were examining thebody. "You say that three people came out from the flat while you werewaiting downstairs," said he at last. "Did you observe them closely?""Yes, I did."

　　"Was there a fellow about thirty, black-bearded, dark, of middlesize?"

　　"Yes; he was the last to pass me."

　　"That is your man, I fancy. I can give you his description, and wehave a very excellent outline of his footmark. That should be enoughfor you."

　　"Not much, Mr. Holmes, among the millions of London."

　　"Perhaps not. That is why I thought it best to summon this lady toyour aid."

　　We all turned round at the words. There, framed in the doorway,was a tall and beautiful woman- the mysterious lodger of Bloomsbury.Slowly she advanced, her face pale and drawn with a frightfulapprehension, her eyes fixed and staring, her terrified gaze rivetedupon the dark figure on the floor.

　　"You have killed him!" she muttered. "Oh, Dio mio, you have killedhim!" Then I heard a sudden sharp intake of her breath, and she spranginto the air with a cry of joy. Round and round the room she danced,her hands clapping, her dark eyes gleaming with delighted wonder,and a thousand pretty Italian exclamations pouring from her lips. Itwas terrible and amazing to see such a woman so convulsed with joyat such a sight. Suddenly she stopped and gazed at us all with aquestioning stare.

　　"But you! You are police, are you not? You have killed GiuseppeGorgiano. Is it not so?"

　　"We are police, madam."

　　She looked round into the shadows of the room.

　　"But where, then, is Gennaro?" she asked. "He is my husband, GennaroLucca. am Emilia Lucca, and we are both from New York. Where isGennaro? He called me this moment from this window, and I ran with allmy speed."

　　"It was I who called," said Holmes.

　　"You! How could you call?"

　　"Your cipher was not difficult, madam. Your presence here wasdesirable. I knew that I had only to flash "Vieni" and you wouldsurely come."

　　The beautiful Italian looked with awe at my companion.

　　"I do not understand how you know these things," she said. "GiuseppeGorgiano- how did he--" She paused, and then suddenly her face litup with pride and delight. "Now I see it! My Gennaro! My splendid,beautiful Gennaro, who has guarded me safe from all harm, he did it,with his own strong hand he killed the monster! Oh, Gennaro, howwonderful you are! What woman could ever be worthy of such a man?""Well, Mrs. Lucca," said the prosaic Gregson, laying his hand uponthe lady's sleeve with as little sentiment as if she were a NottingHill hooligan, "I am not very clear yet who you are or what you are;but you've said enough to make it very clear that we shall want you atthe Yard."

　　"One moment, Gregson," said Holmes. "I rather fancy that this ladymay be as anxious to give us information as we can be to get it. Youunderstand, madam, that your husband will be arrested and tried forthe death of the man who lies before us? What you say may be used inevidence. But if you think that he has acted from motives which arenot criminal, and which he would wish to have known, then you cannotserve him better than by telling us the whole story."

　　"Now that Gorgiano is dead we fear nothing," said the lady. "Hewas a devil and a monster, and there can be no judge in the worldwho would punish my husband for having killed him."

　　"In that case," said Holmes, "my suggestion is that we lock thisdoor, leave things as we found them, go with this lady to her room,and form our opinion after we have heard what it is that she has tosay to us."

　　Half an hour later we were seated, all four, in the smallsitting-room of Signora Lucca, listening to her remarkable narrativeof those sinister events, the ending of which we had chanced towitness. She spoke in rapid and fluent but very unconventionalEnglish, which, for the sake of clearness, I will make grammatical."I was born in Posilippo, near Naples," said she, "and was thedaughter of Augusto Barelli, who was the chief lawyer and once thedeputy of that part. Gennaro was in my father's employment, and I cameto love him, as any woman must. He had neither money nor position-nothing but his beauty and strength and energy- so my father forbadethe match. We fled together, were married at Bari, and sold myjewels to gain the money which would take us to America. This was fouryears ago, and we have been in New York ever since.

　　"Fortune was very good to us at first. Gennaro was able to do aservice to an Italian gentleman- he saved him from some ruffians inthe place called the Bowery, and so made a powerful friend. His namewas Tito Castalotte, and he was the senior partner of the great firmof Castalotte and Zamba, who are the chief fruit importers of NewYork. Signor Zamba is an invalid, and our new friend Castalotte hasall power within the firm, which employs more than three hundredmen. He took my husband into his employment, made him head of adepartment, and showed his good-will towards him in every way.Signor Castalotte was a bachelor, and I believe that he felt as ifGennaro was his son, and both my husband and I loved him as if he wereour father. We had taken and furnished a little house in Brooklyn, andour whole future seemed assured when that black cloud appeared whichwas soon to overspread our sky.

　　"One night, when Gennaro returned from his work, he brought afellow-countryman back with him. His name was Gorgiano, and he hadcome also from Posilippo. He was a huge man, as you can testify, foryou have looked upon his corpse. Not only was his body that of a giantbut everything about him was grotesque, gigantic, and terrifying.His voice was like thunder in our little house. There was scarceroom for the whirl of his great arms as he talked. His thoughts, hisemotions, his passions, all were exaggerated and monstrous. He talked,or rather roared, with such energy that others could but sit andlisten, cowed with the mighty stream of words. His eyes blazed atyou and held you at his mercy. He was a terrible and wonderful man.I thank God that he is dead!

　　"He came again and again. Yet I was aware that Gennaro was no morehappy than I was in his presence. My poor husband would sit pale andlistless, listening to the endless raving upon politics and uponsocial questions which made up our visitor's conversation. Gennarosaid nothing, but I, who knew him so well, could read in his face someemotion which I had never seen there before. At first I thought thatit was dislike. And then, gradually, I understood that it was morethan dislike. It was fear- a deep, secret, shrinking fear. That night-the night that I read his terror- I put my arms round him and Iimplored him by his love for me and by all that he held dear to holdnothing from me, and to tell me why this huge man overshadowed him so."He told me, and my own heart grew cold as ice as I listened. Mypoor Gennaro, in his wild and fiery days, when all the world seemedagainst him and his mind was driven half mad by the injustices oflife, had joined a Neapolitan society, the Red Circle, which wasallied to the old Carbonari. The oaths and secrets of this brotherhoodwere frightful, but once within its rule no escape was possible.When we had fled to America Gennaro thought that he had cast it alloff forever. What was his horror one evening to meet in the streetsthe very man who had initiated him in Naples, the giant Gorgiano, aman who had earned the name of 'Death' in the south of Italy, for hewas red to the elbow in murder! He had come to New York to avoid theItalian police, and he had already planted a branch of this dreadfulsociety in his new home. All this Gennaro told me and showed me asummons which he had received that very day, a Red Circle drawn uponthe head of it telling him that a lodge would be held upon a certaindate, and that his presence at it was required and ordered."That was bad enough, but worse was to come. I had noticed forsome time that when Gorgiano came to us, as he constantly did, inthe evening, he spoke much to me; and even when his words were to myhusband those terrible, glaring, wildbeast eyes of his were alwaysturned upon me. One night his secret came out. I had awakened whathe called 'love' within him- the love of a brute- a savage. Gennarohad not yet returned when he came. He pushed his way in, seized mein his mighty arms, hugged me in his bear's embrace, covered me withkisses, and implored me to come away with him. I was struggling andscreaming when Gennaro entered and attacked him. He struck Gennarosenseless and fled from the house which he was never more to enter. Itwas a deadly enemy that we made that night.

　　"A few days later came the meeting. Gennaro returned from it witha face which told me that something dreadful had occurred. It wasworse than we could have imagined possible. The funds of the societywere raised by blackmailing rich Italians and threatening them withviolence should they refuse the money. It seems that Castalotte, ourdear friend and benefactor, had been approached. He had refused toyield to threats, and he had handed the notices to the police. Itwas resolved how that such an example should be made of him as wouldprevent any other victim, from rebelling. At the meeting it wasarranged that he and his house should be blown up with dynamite. Therewas a drawing of lots as to who should carry out the deed. Gennaro sawour enemy's cruel face, smiling at him as he dipped his hand in thebag. No doubt it had been prearranged in some fashion, for it wasthe fatal disc with the Red Circle upon it, the mandate for murder,which lay upon his palm. He was to kill his best friend, or he wasto expose himself and me to the vengeance of his comrades. It was partof their fiendish system to punish those whom they feared or hatedby injuring not only their own persons but those whom they loved,and it was the knowledge of this which hung as a terror over my poorGennaro's head and drove him nearly crazy with apprehension."All that night we sat together, our arms round each other, eachstrengthening each for the troubles that lay before us. The verynext evening had been fixed for the attempt. By midday my husbandand I were on our way to London, but not before he had given ourbenefactor full warning of his danger, and had also left suchinformation for the police as would safeguard his life for the future."The rest, gentlemen, you know for yourselves. We were sure that ourenemies would be behind us like our own shadows. Gorgiano had hisprivate reasons for vengence, but in any case we knew how ruthless,cunning, and untiring he could be. Both Italy and America are fullof stories of his dreadful powers. If ever they were exerted itwould be now. My darling made use of the few clear days which ourstart had given us in arranging for a refuge for me in such afashion that no possible danger could reach me. For his own part, hewished to be free that he might communicate both with the American andwith the Italian police. I do not myself know where he lived, orhow. All that I learned was through the columns of a newspaper. Butonce as I looked through my window, I saw two Italians watching thehouse, and I understood that in some way Gorgiano had found out ourretreat. Finally Gennaro told me, through the paper, that he wouldsignal to me from a certain window, but when the signals came theywere nothing but warnings, which were suddenly interrupted. It is veryclear to me now that he knew Gorgiano to be close upon him, andthat, thank God! he was ready for him when he came. And now,gentlemen, I would ask you whether we have anything to fear from thelaw, or whether any judge upon earth would condemn my Gennaro for whathe has done?"

　　"Well, Mr. Gregson," said the American, looking across at theofficial, "I don't know what your British point of view may be, butI guess that in New York this lady's husband will receive a prettygeneral vote of thanks."

　　"She will have to come with me and see the chief," Gregson answered."If what she says is corroborated, I do not think she or her husbandhas much to fear. But what I can't make head or tail of, Mr. Holmes,is how on earth you got yourself mixed up in the matter.""Education, Gregson, education. Still seeking knowledge at the olduniversity. Well, Watson, you have one more specimen of the tragic andgrotesque to add to your collection. By the way, it is not eighto'clock, and a Wagner night at Covent Garden! If we burry, we might bein time for the second act."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1926

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE RETIRED COLOURMAN

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　Sherlock Holmes was in a melancholy and philosophic mood thatmorning. His alert practical nature was subject to such reactions."Did you see him?" he asked.

　　"You mean the old fellow who has just gone out?"

　　"Precisely."

　　"Yes, I met him at the door."

　　"What did you think of him?"

　　"A pathetic, futile, broken creature."

　　"Exactly, Watson. Pathetic and futile. But is not all lifepathetic and futile? Is not his story a microcosm of the whole? Wereach. We grasp. And what is left in our hands at the end? A shadow.Or worse than a shadow- misery."

　　"Is he one of your clients?"

　　"Well, I suppose I may call him so. He has been sent on by the Yard.Just as medical men occasionally send their incurables to a quack.They argue that they can do nothing more, and that whatever happensthe patient can be no worse than he is."

　　"What is the matter?"

　　Holmes took a rather soiled card from the table. "Josiah Amberley.He says he was junior partner of Brickfall and Amberley, who aremanufacturers of artistic materials. You will see their names uponpaint-boxes. He made his little pile, retired from business at the ageof sixty-one, bought a house at Lewisham, and settled down to restafter a life of ceaseless grind. One would think his future wastolerably assured."

　　"Yes, indeed."

　　Holmes glanced over some notes which he had scribbled upon theback of an envelope.

　　"Retired in 1896, Watson. Early in 1897 he married a woman twentyyears younger than himself- a good-looking woman, too, if thephotograph does not flatter. A competence, a wife, leisure- itseemed a straight road which lay before him. And yet within twoyears he is, as you have seen, as broken and miserable a creature ascrawls beneath the sun."

　　"But what has happened?"

　　"The old story, Watson. A treacherous friend and a fickle wife. Itwould appear that Amberley has one hobby in life, and it is chess. Notfar from him at Lewisham there lives a young doctor who is also achess-player. I have noted his name as Dr. Ray Ernest. Ernest wasfrequently in the house, and an intimacy between him and Mrs. Amberleywas a natural sequence, for you must admit that our unfortunate clienthas few outward graces, whatever his inner virtues may be. Thecouple went off together last week- destination untraced. What ismore, the faithless spouse carried off the old man's deed-box as herpersonal luggage with a good part of his life's savings within. Can wefind the lady? Can we save the money? A commonplace problem so faras it has developed, and yet a vital one for Josiah Amberley.""What will you do about it?"

　　"Well, the immediate question, my dear Watson, happens to be, whatwill you do?- if you will be good enough to understudy me. You knowthat I am preoccupied with this case of the two Coptic Patriarchs,which should come to a head to-day. I really have not time to go outto Lewisham, and yet evidence taken on the spot has a special value.The old fellow was quite insistent that I should go, but I explainedmy difficulty. He is prepared to meet a representative.""By all means," I answered. "I confess I don't see that I can beof much service, but I am willing to do my best." And so it was thaton a summer afternoon I set forth to Lewisham, little dreaming thatwithin a week the affair in which I was engaging would be the eagerdebate of all England.

　　It was late that evening before I returned to Baker Street andgave an account of my mission. Holmes lay with his gaunt figurestretched in his deep chair, his pipe curling forth slow wreaths ofacrid tobacco, while his eyelids drooped over his eyes so lazilythat he might almost have been asleep were it not that at any haltor questionable passage of my narrative they half lifted, and two grayeyes, as bright and keen as rapiers, transfixed me with theirsearching glance.

　　"The Haven is the name of Mr. Josiah Amberley's house," I explained."I think it would interest you, Holmes. It is like some penuriouspatrician who has sunk into the company of his inferiors. You knowthat particular quarter, the monotonous brick streets, the wearysuburban highways. Right in the middle of them, a little island ofancient culture and comfort, lies this old home, surrounded by ahigh sun-baked wall mottled with lichens and topped with moss, thesort of wall-"

　　"Cut out the poetry, Watson," said Holmes severely. "I note thatit was a high brick wall."

　　"Exactly. I should not have known which was The Haven had I notasked a lounger who was smoking in the street. I have a reason formentioning him. He was a tall, dark, heavily moustached, rathermilitary-looking man. He nodded in answer to my inquiry and gave mea curiously questioning glance, which came back to my memory alittle later.

　　"I had hardly entered the gateway before I saw Mr. Amberley comingdown the drive. I only had a glimpse of him this morning, and hecertainly gave me the impression of a strange creature, but when I sawhim in full light his appearance was even more abnormal.""I have, of course, studied it, and yet I should be interested tohave your impression," said Holmes.

　　"He seemed to me like a man who was literally bowed down by care.His back was curved as though he carried a heavy burden. Yet he wasnot the weakling that I had at first imagined, for his shoulders andchest have the framework of a giant, though his figure tapers awayinto a pair of spindled legs."

　　"Left shoe wrinkled, right one smooth."

　　"I did not observe that."

　　"No, you wouldn't. I spotted his artificial limb. But proceed.""I was struck by the snaky locks of grizzled hair which curledfrom under his old straw hat, and his face with its fierce, eagerexpression and the deeply lined features."

　　"Very good, Watson. What did he say?"

　　"He began pouring out the story of his grievances. We walked downthe drive together, and of course I took a good look round. I havenever seen a worse-kept place. The garden was all running to seed,giving me an impression of wild neglect in which the plants had beenallowed to find the way of Nature rather than of art. How any decentwoman could have tolerated such a state of things, I don't know. Thehouse, too, was slatternly to the last degree, but the poor man seemedhimself to be aware of it and to be trying to remedy it, for a greatpot of green paint stood in the centre of the hall, and he wascarrying a thick brush in his left hand. He had been working on thewoodwork.

　　"He took me into his dingy sanctum, and we had a long chat. Ofcourse, he was disappointed that you had not come yourself. 'Ihardly expected,' he said, 'that so humble all individual as myself,especially after my heavy financial loss, could obtain the completeattention of so famous a man as Mr. Sherlock Holmes.'

　　"I assured him that the financial question did not arise. 'No, ofcourse, it is art for art's sake with him,' said he, 'but even onthe artistic side of crime he might have found something here tostudy. And human nature, Dr. Watson- the black ingratitude of itall! When did I ever refuse one of her requests? Was ever a woman sopampered? And that young man- he might have been my own son. He hadthe run of my house. And yet see how they have treated me! Oh, Dr.Watson, it is a dreadful, dreadful world!'

　　"That was the burden of his song for an hour or more. He had, itseems, no suspicion of an intrigue. They lived alone save for awoman who comes in by the day and leaves every evening at six. On thatparticular evening old Amberley, wishing to give his wife a treat, hadtaken two upper circle seats at the Haymarket Theatre. At the lastmoment she had complained of a headache and had refused to go. Hehad gone alone. There seemed to be no doubt about the fact, for heproduced the unused ticket which he had taken for his wife.""That is remarkable- most remarkable," said Holmes, whose interestin the case seemed to be rising. "Pray continue, Watson. I find yournarrative most arresting. Did you personally examine this ticket?You did not, perchance, take the number?"

　　"It so happens that I did," I answered with some pride. "Itchanced to be my old school number, thirty-one, and so is stuck inmy head."

　　"Excellent, Watson! His seat, then, was either thirty orthirty-two."

　　"Quite so," I answered with some mystification. "And on B row.""That is most satisfactory. What else did he tell you?""He showed me his strong-room, as he called it. It really is astrong-room- like a bank- with iron door and shutter- burglar-proof,as he claimed. Whoever, the woman seems to have had a duplicate key,and between them they had carried off some seven thousand pounds worthof cash and securities."

　　"Securities! How could they dispose of those?"

　　"He said that he had given the police a list and that he hopedthey would be unsaleable. He had got back from the theatre aboutmidnight and found the place plundered, the door and window open,and the fugitives gone. There was no letter or message, nor has heheard a word since. He at once gave the alarm to the police."Holmes brooded for some minutes.

　　"You say he was painting. What was he painting?"

　　"Well, he was painting the passage. But he had already painted thefloor and woodwork of this room I spoke of."

　　"Does it not strike you as a strange occupation in the

　　circumstances?"

　　"'One must do something to ease an aching heart.' That was his ownexplanation. It was eccentric, no doubt, but he is clearly aneccentric man. He tore up one of his wife's photographs in mypresence- tore it up furiously in a tempest of passion. 'I neverwish to see her damned face again,' he shrieked."

　　"Anything more, Watson?"

　　"Yes, one thing which struck me more than anything else. I haddriven to the Blackheath Station and had caught my train there when,just as it was starting, I saw a man dart into the carriage next to myown. You know that I have a quick eye for faces, Holmes. It wasundoubtedly the tall, dark man whom I had addressed in the street. Isaw him once more at London Bridge, and then I lost him in thecrowd. But I am convinced that he was following me."

　　"No doubt! No doubt!" said Holmes. "A tall, dark, heavily moustachedman, you say, with gray-tinted sun-glasses?"

　　"Holmes, you are a wizard. I did not say so, but he hadgray-tinted sun-glasses."

　　"And a Masonic tie-pin?"

　　"Holmes!"

　　"Quite simple, my dear Watson. But let us get down to what ispractical. I must admit to you that the case, which seemed to me to beso absurdly simple as to be hardly worth my notice, is rapidlyassuming a very different aspect. It is true that though in yourmission you have missed everything of importance, yet even thosethings which have obtruded themselves upon your notice give rise toserious thought."

　　"What have I missed?"

　　"Don't be hurt, my dear fellow. You know that I am quite impersonal.No one else would have done better. Some possibly not so well. Butclearly you have missed some vital points. What is the opinion ofthe neighbours about this man Amberley and his wife? That surely is ofimportance. What of Dr. Ernest? Was he the gay Lothario one wouldexpect? With your natural advantages, Watson, every lady is yourhelper and accomplice. What about the girl at the post-office, orthe wife of the greengrocer? I can picture you whispering softnothings with the young lady at the Blue Anchor, and receiving hardsomethings in exchange. All this you have left undone.""It can still be done."

　　"It has been done. Thanks to the telephone and the help of the Yard,I can usually get my essentials without leaving this room. As a matterof fact, my information confirms the man's story. He has the localrepute of being a miser as well as a harsh and exacting husband.That he had a large sum of money in that strongroom of his is certain.So also is it that young Dr. Ernest, an unmarried man, played chesswith Amberley, and probably played the fool with his wife. All thisseems plain sailing, and one would think that there was no more tobe said- and yet!- and yet!"

　　"Where lies the difficulty?"

　　"In my imagination, perhaps. Well, leave it there, Watson. Let usescape from this weary workaday world by the side door of music.Carina sings to-night at the Albert Hall, and we still have time todress, dine, and enjoy."

　　In the morning I was up betimes, but some toast crumbs and two emptyeggshells told me that my companion was earlier still. I found ascribbled note upon the table.

　　Dear Watson:

　　There are one or two points of contact which I should wish toestablish with Mr. Josiah Amberley. When I have done so we can dismissthe case- or not. I would only ask you to be on hand about threeo'clock, as I conceive it possible that I may want you.S.H.

　　I saw nothing of Holmes all day, but at the hour named hereturned, grave, preoccupied, and aloof. At such times it was wiser toleave him to himself.

　　"Has Amberley been here yet?"

　　"No."

　　"Ah! I am expecting him."

　　He was not disappointed, for presently the old fellow arrived with avery worried and puzzled expression upon his austere face."I've had a telegram, Mr. Holmes. I can make nothing of it." Hehanded it over, and Holmes read it aloud.

　　"Come at once without fail. Can give you information as to yourrecent loss.

　　"ELMAN.

　　"The Vicarage.

　　"Dispatched at 2:10 from Little Purlington," said Holmes. "LittlePurlington is in Essex, I believe, not far from Frinton. Well, ofcourse you will start at once. This is evidently from a responsibleperson, the vicar of the place. Where is my Crockford? Yes, here wehave him: J.C. Elman, M.A., Living of Moosmoor cum Little Purlington.'Look up the trains, Watson."

　　"There is one at 5:20 from Liverpool Street."

　　"Excellent. You had best go with him, Watson. He may need help oradvice. Clearly we have come to a crisis in this affair."But our client seemed by no means eager to start.

　　"It's perfectly absurd, Mr. Holmes," he said. "What can this manpossibly know of what has occurred? It is waste of time and money.""He would not have telegraphed to you if he did not knowsomething. Wire at once that you are coming."

　　"I don't think I shall go."

　　Holmes assumed his sternest aspect.

　　"It would make the worst possible impression both on the policeand upon myself, Mr. Amberley, if when so obvious a clue arose youshould refuse to follow it up. We should feel that you were not reallyin earnest in this investigation."

　　Our client seemed horrified at the suggestion.

　　"Why, of course I shall go if you look at it in that way," saidhe. "On the face of it, it seems absurd to suppose that this parsonknows anything, but if you think-"

　　"I do think," said Holmes with emphasis, and so we were launchedupon our journey. Holmes took me aside before we left the room andgave me one word of counsel, which showed that he considered thematter to be of importance. "Whatever you do, see that he reallydoes go," said he. "Should he break away or return, get to the nearesttelephone exchange and send the single word 'Bolted.' I will arrangehere that it shall reach me wherever I am."

　　Little Purlington is not an easy place to reach, for it is on abranch line. My remembrance of the journey is not a pleasant one,for the weather was hot, the train slow, and my companion sullen andsilent, hardly talking at all save to make an occasional sardonicremark as to the futility of our proceedings. When we at lastreached the little station it was a two-mile drive before we came tothe Vicarage, where a big, solemn, rather pompous clergyman receivedus in his study. Our telegram lay before him.

　　"Well, gentlemen," he asked, "what can I do for you?"

　　"We came," I explained, "in answer to your wire."

　　"My wire! I sent no wire."

　　"I mean the wire which you sent to Mr. Josiah Amberley about hiswife and his money."

　　"If this is a joke, sir, it is a very questionable one," said thevicar angrily. "I have never heard of the gentleman you name, and Ihave not sent a wire to anyone."

　　Our client and I looked at each other in amazement.

　　"Perhaps there is some mistake," said I; "are there perhaps twovicarages? Here is the wire itself, signed Elman and dated from theVicarage."

　　"There is only one vicarage, sir, and only one vicar, and thiswire is a scandalous forgery, the origin of which shall certainly beinvestigated by the police. Meanwhile, I can see no possible object inprolonging this interview."

　　So Mr. Amberley and I found ourselves on the roadside in what seemedto me to be the most primitive village in England. We made for thetelegraph office, but it was already closed. There was a telephone,however, at the little Railway Arms, and by it I got into touch withHolmes, who shared in our amazement at the result of our journey."Most singular!" said the distant voice. "Most remarkable! I muchfear, my dear Watson, that there is no return train to-night. I haveunwittingly condemned you to the horrors of a country inn. However,there is always Nature, Watson- Nature and Josiah Amberley- you can bein close commune with both." I heard his dry chuckle as he turnedaway.

　　It was soon apparent to me that my companion's reputation as a miserwas not undeserved. he had grumbled at the expense of the journey, hadinsisted upon travelling third-class, and was now clamorous in hisobjections to the hotel bill. Next morning, when we did at last arrivein London, it was hard to say which of us was in the worse humour."You had best take Baker Street as we pass," said I. "Mr. Holmes mayhave some fresh instructions."

　　"If they are not worth more than the last ones they are not ofmuch use," said Amberley with a malevolent scowl. None the less, hekept me company. I had already warned Holmes by telegram of the hourof our arrival, but we found a message waiting that he was at Lewishamand would expect us there. That was a surprise, but an even greaterone was to find that he was not alone in the sittingroom of ourclient. A stern-looking, impassive man sat beside him, a dark man withgray-tinted glasses and a large Masonic plan projecting from his tie."This is my friend Mr. Barker," said Holmes. "He has beeninteresting himself also in your business, Mr. Josiah Amberley, thoughwe have been working independently. But we both have the same questionto ask you!"

　　Mr. Amberley sat down heavily. He sensed impending danger. I read itin his straining eyes and his twitching features.

　　"What is the question, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"Only this: What did you do with the bodies?"

　　The man sprang to his feet with a hoarse scream. He clawed intothe air with his bony hands. His mouth was open, and for the instanthe looked like some horrible bird of prey. In a flash we got a glimpseof the real Josiah Amberley, a misshapen demon with a soul asdistorted as his body. As he fell back into his chair he clapped hishand to his lips as if to stifle a cough. Holmes sprang at histhroat like a tiger and twisted his face towards the ground. A whitepellet fell from between his gasping lips.

　　"No short cuts, Josiah Amberley, Things must be done decently and inorder. What about it, Barker?"

　　"I have a cab at the door," said our taciturn companion."It is only a few hundred yards to the station. We will go together.You can stay there, Watson. I shall be back within half an hour."The old colourman had the strength of a lion in that great trunkof his, but he was helpless in the hands of the two experiencedman-handlers. Wriggling and twisting he was dragged to the waitingcab, and I was left to my solitary vigil in the ill-omened house. Inless time than he had named, however, Holmes was back, in company witha smart young police inspector.

　　"I've left Barker to look after the formalities," said Holmes."You had not met Barker, Watson. He is my hated rival upon theSurrey shore. When you said a tall dark man it was not difficult forme to complete the picture. He has several good cases to his credit,has he not, Inspector?"

　　"He has certainly interfered several times," the inspectoranswered with reserve.

　　"His methods are irregular, no doubt, like my own. The irregularsare useful sometimes, you know. You, for example, with your compulsorywarning about whatever he said being used against him, could neverhave bluffed this rascal into what is virtually a confession.""Perhaps not. But we get there all the same, Mr. Holmes. Don'timagine that we had not formed our own views of this case, and that wewould not have laid our hands on our man. You will excuse us forfeeling sore when you jump in with methods which we cannot use, and sorob us of the credit."

　　"There shall be no such robbery, MacKinnon. I assure you that Iefface myself from now onward, and as to Barker, he has done nothingsave what I told him."

　　The inspector seemed considerably relieved.

　　"That is very handsome of you, Mr. Holmes. Praise or blame canmatter little to you, but it is very different to us when thenewspapers begin to ask questions."

　　"Quite so. But they are pretty sure to ask questions anyhow, so itwould be as well to have answers. What will you say, for example, whenthe intelligent and enterprising reporter asks you what the exactpoints were which aroused your suspicion, and finally gave you acertain conviction as to the real facts?"

　　The inspector looked puzzled.

　　"We don't seem to have got any real facts yet, Mr. Holmes. You saythat the prisoner, in the presence of three witnesses, practicallyconfessed by trying to commit suicide, that he had murdered his wifeand her lover. What other facts have you?"

　　"Have you arranged for a search?"

　　"There are three constables on their way."

　　"Then you will soon get the clearest fact of all. The bodiescannot be far away.

　　Try the cellars and the garden. It should not take long to dig upthe likely places. This house is older than the water-pipes. Theremust be a disused well somewhere. Try your luck there.""But how did you know of it, and how was it done?"

　　"I'll show you first how it was done, and then I will give theexplanation which is due to you, and even more to my long-sufferingfriend here, who has been invaluable throughout. But, first, I wouldgive you an insight into this man's mentality. It is a very unusualone- so much so that I think his destination is more likely to beBroadmoor than the scaffold. He has, to a high degree, the sort ofmind which one associates with the mediaeval Italian nature ratherthan with the modern Briton. He was a miserable miser who made hiswife so wretched by his niggardly ways that she was a ready prey forany adventurer. Such a one came upon the scene in the person of thischess-playing doctor. Amberley excelled at chess- one mark, Watson, ofa scheming mind. Like all misers, he was a jealous man, and hisjealousy became a frantic mania. Rightly or wrongly, he suspected anintrigue. He determined to have his revenge, and he planned it withdiabolical cleverness. Come here!"

　　Holmes led us along the passage with as much certainty as if hehad lived in the house and halted at the open door of the strong-room."Pooh! What an awful smell of paint!" cried the inspector."That was our first clue," said Holmes. "You can thank Dr.Watson's observation for that, though he failed to draw the inference.It set my foot upon the trail. Why should this man at such a time befilling his house with strong odours? Obviously, to cover some othersmell which he wished to conceal- some guilty smell which wouldsuggest suspicions. then came the idea of a room such as you seehere with iron door and shutter- a hermetically sealed room. Put thosetwo facts together, and whither do they lead? I could only determinethat by examining the house myself. I was already certain that thecase was serious, for I had examined the box-office chart at theHaymarket Theatre- another of Dr. Watson's bull's-eyes- andascertained that neither B thirty nor thirty-two of the upper circlehad been occupied that night. Therefore, Amberley had not been tothe theatre, and his alibi fell to the ground. He made a bad slip whenhe allowed my astute friend to notice the number of the seat taken forhis wife. The question now arose how I might be able to examine thehouse. I sent an agent to the most impossible village I could thinkof, and summoned my man to it at such an hour that he could notpossibly get back. To prevent any miscarriage, Dr. Watsonaccompanied him. The good vicar's name I took, of course, out of myCrockford. Do I make it all clear to you?"

　　"It is masterly," said the inspector in an awed voice.

　　"There being no fear of interruption I proceeded to burgle thehouse. Burglary has always been an alternative profession had Icared to adopt it, and I have little doubt that I should have cometo the front. Observe what I found. You see the gas-pipe along theskirting here. Very good. It rises in the angle of the wall, and thereis a tap here in the corner. The pipe runs out into the strong-room,as you can see, and ends in that plaster rose in the centre of theceiling, where it is concealed by the ornamentation. That end iswide open. At any moment by turning the outside tap the room couldbe flooded with gas. With door and shutter closed and the tap fullon I would not give two minutes of conscious sensation to anyoneshut up in that little chamber. By what devilish device he decoyedthem there I do not know, but once inside the door they were at hismercy."

　　The inspector examined the pipe with interest. "One of ourofficers mentioned the smell of gas," said he, "but of course thewindow and door were open then, and the paint- or some of it- wasalready about. He had begun the work of painting the day before,according to his story. But what next, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"Well, then came an incident which was rather unexpected tomyself. I was slipping through the pantry window, in the early dawnwhen I felt a hand inside my collar, and a voice said: 'Now, yourascal, what are you doing in there?' When I could twist my head roundI looked into the tinted spectacles of my friend and rival, Mr.Barker. it was a curious foregathering and set us both smiling. Itseems that he had been engaged by Dr. Ray Ernest's family to make someinvestigations and had come to the same conclusion as to foul play. Hehad watched the house for some days and had spotted Dr. Watson asone of the obviously suspicious characters who had called there. Hecould hardly arrest Watson, but when he saw a man actually climbingout of the pantry window there came a limit to his restraint. Ofcourse, I told him how matters stood and we continued the casetogether."

　　"Why him? Why, not us?"

　　"Because it was in my mind to put that little test which answered soadmirably. I fear you would not have gone so far."

　　The inspector smiled.

　　"Well, maybe not. I understand that I have your word, Mr. Holmes,that you step right out of the case now and that you turn all yourresults over to us."

　　"Certainly, that is always my custom."

　　"Well, in the name of the force I thank you. It seems a clearcase, as you put it, and there can't be much difficulty over thebodies."

　　"I'll show you a grim little bit of evidence," said Holmes, "and Iam sure Amberley himself never observed it. You'll get results,Inspector, by always putting yourself in the other fellow's place, andthinking what you would do yourself. It takes some imagination, but itpays. Now, we will suppose that you were shut up in this littleroom, had not two minutes to live, but wanted to get even with thefiend who was probably mocking at you from the other side of the door.What would you do?"

　　"Write a message."

　　"Exactly. You would like to tell people how you died. No use writingon paper. That would be seen. If you wrote on the wall someone mightrest upon it. Now, look here! Just above the skirting is scribbledwith a purple indelible pencil: 'We we-' That's all."

　　"What do you make of that?"

　　"Well, it's only a foot above the ground. The poor devil was onthe floor dying when he wrote it. He lost his senses before he couldfinish."

　　"He was writing, 'We were murdered.'"

　　"That's how I read it. If you find an indelible pencil on the body-""We'll look out for it, you may be sure. But those securities?Clearly there was no robbery at all. And yet he did possess thosebonds. We verified that."

　　"You may be sure he has them hidden in a safe place. When thewhole elopement had passed into history, he would suddenly discoverthem and announce that the guilty couple had relented and sent backthe plunder or had dropped it on the way."

　　"You certainly seem to have met every difficulty," said theinspector. "Of course, he was bound to call us in, but why he shouldhave gone to you I can't understand."

　　"Pure swank!" Holmes answered. "He felt so clever and so sure ofhimself that he imagined no one could touch him. He could say to anysuspicious neighbour, 'Look at the steps I have taken. I haveconsulted not only the police but even Sherlock Holmes.'"The inspector laughed.

　　"We must forgive you your 'even,' Mr. Holmes," said he, "It's asworkmanlike a job as I can remember."

　　A couple of days later my friend tossed across to me a copy of thebi-weekly North Surrey Observer. Under a series of flamingheadlines, which began with "The Haven Horror" and ended with"Brilliant Police Investigation," there was a packed column of printwhich gave the first consecutive account of the affair. The concludingparagraph is typical of the whole. It ran thus:

　　The remarkable acumen by which Inspector MacKinnon deduced fromthe smell of paint that some other smell, that of gas, for example,might be concealed; the bold deduction that the strong-room might alsobe the death-chamber, and the subsequent inquiry which led to thediscovery of the bodies in a disused well, cleverly concealed by adog-kennel, should live in the history of crime as a standingexample of the intelligence of our professional detectives."Well, well, MacKinnon is a good fellow," said Holmes with atolerant smile. "You can file it in our archives, Watson. Some day thetrue story may be told."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1904

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE SECOND STAIN

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE SECOND STAIN

　　I had intended "The Adventure of the Abbey Grange" to be the last ofthose exploits of my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, which I shouldever communicate to the public. This resolution of mine was not due toany lack of material, since I have notes of many hundreds of casesto which I have never alluded, nor was it caused by any waninginterest on the part of my readers in the singular personality andunique methods of this remarkable man. The real reason lay in thereluctance which Mr. Holmes has shown to the continued publicationof his experiences. So long as he was in actual professionalpractice the records of his successes were of some practical valueto him, but since he has definitely retired from London and betakenhimself to study and bee-farming on the Sussex Downs, notoriety hasbecome hateful to him, and he has peremptorily requested that hiswishes in this matter should be strictly observed. It was only upon myrepresenting to him that I had given a promise that "The Adventureof the Second Stain" should be published when the times were ripe, andpointing out to him that it is only appropriate that this longseries of episodes should culminate in the most importantinternational case which he has ever been called upon to handle,that I at last succeeded in obtaining his consent that a carefullyguarded account of the incident should at last be laid before thepublic. If in telling the story I seem to be somewhat vague in certaindetails, the public will readily understand that there is an excellentreason for my reticence.

　　It was, then, in a year, and even in a decade, that shall benameless, that upon one Tuesday morning in autumn we found twovisitors of European fame within the walls of our humble room in BakerStreet. The one, austere, high-nosed, eagle-eyed, and dominant, wasnone other than the illustrious Lord Bellinger, twice Premier ofBritain. The other, dark, clear-cut, and elegant, hardly yet of middleage, and endowed with every beauty of body and of mind, was theRight Honourable Trelawney Hope, Secretary for European Affairs, andthe most rising statesman in the country. They sat side by side uponour paper-littered settee, and it was easy to see from their wornand anxious faces that it was business of the most pressing importancewhich had brought them. The Premier's thin, blue-veined hands wereclasped tightly over the ivory head of his umbrella, and his gaunt,ascetic face looked gloomily from Holmes to me. The European Secretarypulled nervously at his moustache and fidgeted with the seals of hiswatch-chain.

　　"When I discovered my loss, Mr. Holmes, which was at eight o'clockthis morning, I at once informed the Prime Minister. It was at hissuggestion that we have both come to you."

　　"Have you informed the police?"

　　"No, sir," said the Prime Minister, with the quick, decisivemanner for which he was famous. "We have not done so, nor is itpossible that we should do so. To inform the police must, in thelong run, mean to inform the public. This is what we particularlydesire to avoid."

　　"And why, sir?"

　　"Because the document in question is of such immense importancethat its publication might very easily- I might almost say probably-lead to European complications of the utmost moment. It is not toomuch to say that peace or war may hang upon the issue. Unless itsrecovery can be attended with the utmost secrecy, then it may aswell not be recovered at all, for all that is aimed at by those whohave taken it is that its contents should be generally known.""I understand. Now, Mr. Trelawney Hope, I should be much obligedif you would tell me exactly the circumstances under which thisdocument disappeared."

　　"That can be done in a very few words, Mr. Holmes. The letter- for itwas a letter from a foreign potentate- was received six days ago. Itwas of such importance that I have never left it in my safe, buthave taken it across each evening to my house in Whitehall Terrace,and kept it in my bedroom in a locked despatch-box. It was therelast night. Of that I am certain. I actually opened the box while Iwas dressing for dinner and saw the document inside. This morning itwas gone. The despatch-box had stood beside the glass upon mydressing-table all night. I am a light sleeper, and so is my wife.We are both prepared to swear that no one could have entered theroom during the night. And yet I repeat that the paper is gone.""What time did you dine?"

　　"Half-past seven."

　　"How long was it before you went to bed?"

　　"My wife had gone to the theatre. I waited up for her. It washalf-past eleven before we went to our room."

　　"Then for four hours the despatch-box had lain unguarded?""No one is ever permitted to enter that room save the house-maidin the morning, and my valet, or my wife's maid, during the rest ofthe day. They are both trusty servants who have been with us forsome time. Besides, neither of them could possibly have known thatthere was anything more valuable than the ordinary departmental papersin my despatch-box."

　　"Who did know of the existence of that letter?"

　　"No one in the house."

　　"Surely your wife knew?'

　　"No, sir. I had said nothing to my wife until I missed the paperthis morning."

　　The Premier nodded approvingly.

　　"I have long known, sir, how high is your sense of public duty,"said he. "I am convinced that in the case of a secret of thisimportance it would rise superior to the most intimate domestic ties.The European Secretary bowed.

　　"You do me no more than justice, sir. Until this morning I havenever breathed one word to my wife upon this matter."

　　"Could she have guessed?"

　　"No, Mr. Holmes, she could not have guessed- nor could anyone haveguessed."

　　"Have you lost any documents before?"

　　"No, sir."

　　"Who is there in England who did know of the existence of thisletter?"

　　"Each member of the Cabinet was informed of it yesterday, but thepledge of secrecy which attends every Cabinet meeting was increased bythe solemn warning which was given by the Prime Minister. Goodheavens, to think that within a few hours I should myself have lostit!" His handsome face was distorted with a spasm of despair, andhis hands tore at his hair. For a moment we caught a glimpse of thenatural man, impulsive, ardent, keenly sensitive. The next thearistocratic mask was replaced, and the gentle voice had returned."Besides the members of the Cabinet there are two, or possiblythree, departmental officials who know of the letter. No one else inEngland, Mr. Holmes, I assure you."

　　"But abroad?"

　　"I believe that no one abroad has seen it save the man who wrote it.I am well convinced that his Ministers- that the usual officialchannels have not been employed."

　　Holmes considered for some little time.

　　"Now, sir, I must ask you more particularly what this document is,and why its disappearance should have such momentous consequences?"The two statesmen exchanged a quick glance and the Premier'sshaggy eyebrows gathered in a frown.

　　"Mr. Holmes, the envelope is a long, thin one of pale blue colour.There is a seal of red wax stamped with a crouching lion. It isaddressed in large, bold handwriting to-"

　　"I fear, sir," said Holmes, "that, interesting and indeedessential as these details are, my inquiries must go more to theroot of things. What was the letter?"

　　"That is a State secret of the utmost importance, and I fear thatI cannot tell you, nor do I see that it is necessary. If by the aid ofthe powers which you are said to possess you can find such an envelopeas I describe with its enclosure, you will have deserved well ofyour country, and earned any reward which it lies in our power tobestow."

　　Sherlock Holmes rose with a smile.

　　"You are two of the most busy men in the country," said he, "andin my own small way I have also a good many calls upon me. I regretexceedingly that I cannot help you in this matter, and anycontinuation of this interview would be a waste of time."The Premier sprang to his feet with that quick, fierce gleam ofhis deep-set eyes before which a Cabinet has cowered. "I am notaccustomed, sir," he began, but mastered his anger and resumed hisseat. For a minute or more we all sat in silence. Then the oldstatesman shrugged his shoulders.

　　"We must accept your terms, Mr. Holmes. No doubt you are right,and it is unreasonable for us to expect you to act unless we giveyou our entire confidence."

　　"I agree with you," said the younger statesman.

　　"Then I will tell you, relying entirely upon your honour and that ofyour colleague, Dr. Watson. I may appeal to your patriotism also,for I could not imagine a greater misfortune for the country than thatthis affair should come out."

　　"You may safely trust us."

　　"The letter, then, is from a certain foreign potentate who basbeen ruffled by some recent Colonial developments of this country.It has been written hurriedly and upon his own responsibilityentirely. Inquiries have shown that his Ministers know nothing ofthe matter. At the same time it is couched in so unfortunate a manner,and certain phrases in it are of so provocative a character, thatits publication would undoubtedly lead to a most dangerous state offeeling in this country. There would be such a ferment, sir, that I donot hesitate to say that within a week of the publication of thatletter this country would be involved in a great war."

　　Holmes wrote a name upon a slip of paper and handed it to thePremier.

　　"Exactly. It was he. And it is this letter- this letter which maywell mean the expenditure of a thousand millions and the lives of ahundred thousand men- which has become lost in this unaccountablefashion."

　　"Have you informed the sender?"

　　"Yes, sir, a cipher telegram has been despatched."

　　"Perhaps he desires the publication of the letter."

　　"No, sir, we have strong reason to believe that he alreadyunderstands that he has acted in an indiscreet and hot-headedmanner. It would be a greater blow to him and to his country than tous if this letter were to come out."

　　"If this is so, whose interest is it that, the letter should comeout? Why should anyone desire to steal it or to publish it?""There, Mr. Holmes, you take me into regions of high internationalpolitics. But if you consider the European situation you will haveno difficulty in perceiving the motive. The whole of Europe is anarmed camp. There is a double league which makes a fair balance ofmilitary power. Great Britain holds the scales. If Britain were driveninto war with one confederacy, it would assure the supremacy of theother confederacy, whether they joined in the war or not. Do youfollow?"

　　"Very clearly. It is then the interest of the enemies of thispotentate to secure and publish this letter, so as to make a breachbetween his country and ours?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"And to whom would this document be sent if it fell into the handsof an enemy?"

　　"To any of the great Chancelleries of Europe. It is probablyspeeding on its way thither at the present instant as fast as steamcan take it."

　　Mr. Trelawney Hope dropped his head on his chest and groanedaloud. The Premier placed his hand kindly upon his shoulder."It is your misfortune, my dear fellow. No one can blame you.There is no precaution which you have neglected. Now, Mr. Holmes,you are in full possession of the facts. What course do yourecommend?"

　　Holmes shook his head mournfully.

　　"You think, sir, that unless this document is recovered there willbe war?"

　　"I think it is very probable."

　　"Then, sir, prepare for war."

　　"That is a hard saying, Mr. Holmes."

　　"Consider the facts, sir. It is inconceivable that it was takenafter eleven-thirty at night, since I understand that Mr. Hope and hiswife were both in the room from that hour until the loss was foundout. It was taken, then, yesterday evening between seven-thirty andeleven-thirty, probably near the earlier hour, since whoever took itevidently knew that it was there and would naturally secure it asearly as possible. Now, sir, if a document of this importance weretaken at that hour, where can it be now? No one has any reason toretain it. It has been passed rapidly on to those who need it. Whatchance have we now to overtake or even to trace it? It is beyond ourreach."

　　The Prime Minister rose from the settee.

　　"What you say is perfectly logical, Mr. Holmes. I feel that thematter is indeed out of our hands."

　　"Let us presume, for argument's sake, that the document was taken bythe maid or by the valet-"

　　"They are both old and tried servants."

　　"I understand you to say that your room is on the second floor, thatthere is no entrance from without, and that from within no one couldgo up unobserved. It must, then, be somebody in the house who hastaken it. To whom would the thief take it? To one of severalinternational spies and secret agents, whose names are tolerablyfamiliar to me. There are three who may be said to be the heads oftheir profession. I will begin my research by going round andfinding if each of them is at his post. If one is missing-especially if he has disappeared since last night- we will have someindication as to where the document has gone."

　　"Why should he be missing?" asked the European Secretary. "Hewould take the letter to an Embassy in London, as likely as not.""I fancy not. These agents work independently, and their relationswith the Embassies are often strained."

　　The Prime Minister nodded his acquiescence.

　　"I believe you are right, Mr. Holmes. He would take so valuable aprize to headquarters with his own hands. I think that your courseof action is an excellent one. Meanwhile, Hope, we cannot neglectall our other duties on account of this one misfortune. Should therebe any fresh developments during the day we shall communicate withyou, and you will no doubt let us know the results of your owninquiries."

　　The two statesmen bowed and walked gravely from the room.When our illustrious visitors had departed Holmes lit his pipe insilence and sat for some time lost in the deepest thought. I hadopened the morning paper and was immersed in a sensational crime whichhad occurred in London the night before, when my friend gave anexclamation, sprang to his feet, and laid his pipe down upon themantelpiece.

　　"Yes," said he, "there is no better way of approaching it. Thesituation is desperate, but not hopeless. Even now, if we could besure which of them has taken it, it is just possible that it has notyet passed out of his hands. After all, it is a question of money withthese fellows, and I have the British treasury behind me. If it's onthe market I'll buy it- if it means another penny on the income-tax.It is conceivable that the fellow might hold it back to see whatbids come from this side before he tries his luck on the other.There are only those three capable of playing so bold a game- thereare Oberstein, La Rothiere, and Eduardo Lucas. I will see each ofthem."

　　I glanced at my morning paper.

　　"Is that Eduardo Lucas of Godolphin Street?"

　　"Yes."

　　"You will not see him."

　　"Why not?"

　　"He was murdered in his house last night."

　　My friend has so often astonished me in the course of our adventuresthat it was with a sense of exultation that I realized howcompletely I had astonished him. He stared in amazement, and thensnatched the paper from my hands. This was the paragraph which I hadbeen engaged in reading when he rose from his chair.

　　MURDER IN WESTMINSTER

　　A crime of mysterious character was committed last night at 16Godolphin Street, one of the old-fashioned and secluded rows ofeighteenth century houses which lie between the river and the Abbey,almost in the shadow of the great Tower of the Houses of Parliament.This small but select mansion has been inhabited for some years by Mr.Eduardo Lucas, well known in society circles both on account of hischarming personality and because he has the well-deserved reputationof being one of the best amateur tenors in the country. Mr. Lucas isan unmarried man, thirty-four years of age, and his establishmentconsists of Mrs. Pringle, an elderly housekeeper, and of Mitton, hisvalet. The former retires early and sleeps at the top of the house.The valet was out for the evening, visiting a friend at Hammersmith.From ten o'clock onward Mr. Lucas had the house to himself. Whatoccurred during that time has not yet transpired, but at a quarterto twelve Police-constable Barrett, passing along Godolphin Streetobserved that the door of No. 16 was ajar. He knocked, but received noanswer. Perceiving a light in the front room, he advanced into thepassage and again knocked, but without reply. He then pushed openthe door and entered. The room was in a state of wild disorder, thefurniture being all swept to one side, and one chair lying on its backin the centre. Beside this chair, and still grasping one of itslegs, lay the unfortunate tenant of the house. He had been stabbedto the heart and must have died instantly. The knife with which thecrime had been committed was a curved Indian dagger, plucked down froma trophy of Oriental arms which adorned one of the walls. Robbery doesnot appear to have been the motive of the crime, for there had been noattempt to remove the valuable contents of the room. Mr. Eduardo Lucaswas so well known and popular that his violent and mysterious fatewill arouse painful interest and intense sympathy in a widespreadcircle of friends.

　　"Well, Watson, what do you make of this?" asked Holmes, after a longpause.

　　"It is an amazing coincidence."

　　"A coincidence! Here is one of the three men whom we had named aspossible actors in this drama, and he meets a violent death during thevery hours when we know that that drama was being enacted. The oddsare enormous against its being coincidence. No figures could expressthem. No, my dear Watson, the two events are connected- must beconnected. It is for us to find the connection."

　　"But now the official police must know all."

　　"Not at all. They know all they see at Godolphin Street. Theyknow- and shall know- nothing of Whitehall Terrace. Only we know ofboth events, and can trace the relation between them. There is oneobvious point which would, in any case, have turned my suspicionsagainst Lucas. Godolphin Street, Westminster, is only a few minutes'walk from Whitehall Terrace. The other secret agents whom I have namedlive in the extreme West End. It was easier, therefore, for Lucas thanfor the others to establish a connection or receive a message from theEuropean Secretary's household- a small thing, and yet where eventsare compressed into a few hours it may prove essential. Halloa! whathave we here?"

　　Mrs. Hudson had appeared with a lady's card upon her salver.Holmes glanced at it, raised his eyebrows, and handed it over to me."Ask Lady Hilda Trelawney Hope if she will be kind enough to stepup," said he.

　　A moment later our modest apartment, already so distinguished thatmorning, was further honoured by the entrance of the most lovely womanin London. I had often heard of the beauty of the youngest daughter ofthe Duke of Belminster, but no description of it, and no contemplationof colourless photographs, had prepared me for the subtle, delicatecharm and the beautiful colouring of that exquisite head. And yet aswe saw it that autumn morning, it was not its beauty which would bethe first thing to impress the observer. The cheek was lovely but itwas paled with emotion, the eyes were bright but it was the brightnessof fever, the sensitive mouth was tight and drawn in an effort afterself-command. Terror- not beauty- was what sprang first to the eyeas our fair visitor stood framed for an instant in the open door."Has my husband been here, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"Yes, madam. he has been here."

　　"Mr. Holmes. I implore you not to tell him that I came here." Holmesbowed coldly, and motioned the lady to a chair.

　　"Your ladyship places me in a very delicate position. I beg that youwill sit down and tell me what you desire, but I fear that I cannotmake any unconditional promise."

　　She swept across the room and seated herself with her back to thewindow. It was a queenly presence- tall, graceful, and intenselywomanly.

　　"Mr. Holmes," she said- and her white-gloved hands clasped andunclasped as she spoke- "I will speak frankly to you in the hopes thatit may induce you to speak frankly in return. There is completeconfidence between my husband and me on all matters save one. That oneis politics. On this his lips are sealed. He tells me nothing. Now,I am aware that there was a most deplorable occurrence in our houselast night. I know that a paper has disappeared. But because thematter is political my husband refuses to take me into his completeconfidence. Now it is essential- essential, I say- that I shouldthoroughly understand it. You are the only other person, save onlythese politicians, who knows the true facts. I beg you then, Mr.Holmes, to tell me exactly what has happened and what it will lead to.Tell me all, Mr. Holmes. Let no regard for your client's interestskeep you silent, for I assure you that his interests, if he would onlysee it, would be best served by taking me into his completeconfidence. What was this paper which was stolen?"

　　"Madam, what you ask me is really impossible."

　　She groaned and sank her face in her hands.

　　"You must see that this is so, madam. If your husband thinks fitto keep you in the dark over this matter, is it for me, who has onlylearned the true facts under the pledge of professional secrecy, totell what he has withheld? It is not fair to ask it. It is him whomyou must ask."

　　"I have asked him. I come to you as a last resource. But withoutyour telling me anything definite, Mr. Holmes, you may do a greatservice if you would enlighten me on one point."

　　"What is it, madam?"

　　"Is my husband's political career likely to suffer through thisincident?"

　　"Well, madam, unless it is set right it may certainly have a veryunfortunate effect."

　　"Ah!" She drew in her breath sharply as one whose doubts areresolved.

　　"One more question, Mr. Holmes. From an expression which myhusband dropped in the first shock of this disaster I understoodthat terrible public consequences might arise from the loss of thisdocument."

　　"If he said so, I certainly cannot deny it."

　　"Of what nature are they?"

　　"Nay, madam, there again you ask me more than I can possiblyanswer."

　　"Then I will take up no more of your time. I cannot blame you, Mr.Holmes, for having refused to speak more freely, and you on yourside will not, I am sure, think the worse of me because I desire, evenagainst his will, to share my husband's anxieties. Once more I begthat you will say nothing of my visit."

　　She looked back at us from the door, and I had a last impressionof that beautiful haunted face, the startled eyes, and the drawnmouth. Then she was gone.

　　"Now, Watson, the fair sex is your department," said Holmes, witha smile, when the dwindling frou-frou of skirts had ended in theslam of the front door. "What was the fair lady's game? What did shereally want?"

　　"Surely her own statement is clear and her anxiety very natural.""Hum! Think of her appearance, Watson- her manner, her suppressedexcitement, her restlessness, her tenacity in asking questions.Remember that she comes of a caste who do not lightly show emotion.""She was certainly much moved."

　　"Remember also the curious earnestness with which she assured usthat it was best for her husband that she should know all. What didshe mean by that? And you must have observed, Watson, how shemanoeuvred to have the light at her back. She did not wish us toread her expression."

　　"Yes, she chose the one chair in the room."

　　"And yet the motives of women are so inscrutable. You remember thewoman at Margate whom I suspected for the same reason. No powder onher nose- that proved to be the correct solution. How can you build onsuch a quicksand? Their most trivial action may mean volumes, or theirmost extraordinary conduct may depend upon a hairpin or a curlingtongs. Good-morning, Watson."

　　"You are off?"

　　"Yes, I will while away the morning at Godolphin Street with ourfriends of the regular establishment. With Eduardo Lucas lies thesolution of our problem, though I must admit that I have not aninkling as to what form it may take. It is a capital mistake totheorize in advance of the facts. Do you stay on guard, my goodWatson, and receive any fresh visitors. I'll join you at lunch if I amable."

　　All that day and the next and the next Holmes was in a mood whichhis friends would can taciturn, and others morose. He ran out andran in, smoked incessantly, played snatches on his violin, sank intoreveries, devoured sandwiches at irregular hours, and hardlyanswered the casual questions which I put to him. It was evident to methat things were not going well with him or his quest. He would saynothing of the case, and it was from the papers that I learned theparticulars of the inquest, and the arrest with the subsequent releaseof John Mitton, the valet of the deceased. The coroner's jurybrought in the obvious Wilful Murder, but the,parties remained asunknown as ever. No motive was suggested. The room was full ofarticles of value, but none had been taken. The dead man's papershad not been tampered with. They were carefully examined, and showedthat he was a keen student of international politics, an indefatigablegossip, a remarkable linguist, and an untiring letter writer. He hadbeen on intimate terms with the leading politicians of severalcountries. But nothing sensational was discovered among thedocuments which filled his drawers. As to his relations with women,they appeared to have been promiscuous but superficial. He had manyacquaintances among them, but few friends, and no one whom he loved.His habits were regular, his conduct inoffensive. His death was anabsolute mystery and likely to remain so.

　　As to the arrest of John Mitton, the valet, it was a council ofdespair as an alternative to absolute inaction. But no case could besustained against him. He had visited friends in Hammersmith thatnight. The alibi was complete. It is true that he started home at anhour which should have brought him to Westminster before the time whenthe crime was discovered, but his own explanation that he had walkedpart of the way seemed probable enough in view of the fineness ofthe night. He had actually arrived at twelve o'clock, and appearedto be overwhelmed by the unexpected tragedy. He had always been ongood terms with his master. Several of the dead man's possessions-notably a small case of razors- had been found in the valet's boxes,but he explained that they had been presents from the deceased, andthe housekeeper was able to corroborate the story. Mitton had beenin Lucas's employment for three years. It was noticeable that Lucasdid not take Mitton on the Continent with him. Sometimes he visitedParis for three months on end, but Mitton was left in charge of theGodolphin Street house. As to the housekeeper, she had heard nothingon the night of the crime. If her master had a visitor he hadhimself admitted him.

　　So for three mornings the mystery remained, so far as I could followit in the papers. If Holmes knew more, he kept his own counsel, but,as he told me that Inspector Lestrade had taken him into him intohis confidence in the case, I knew that he was in close touch withevery development. Upon the fourth day there appeared a longtelegram from Paris which seemed to solve the whole question.A discovery has just been made by the Parisian police [said theDaily Telegraph] which raises the veil which hung round the tragicfate of Mr. Eduardo Lucas, who met his death by violence last Mondaynight at Godolphin Street, Westminster. Our readers will remember thatthe deceased gentleman was found stabbed in his room, and that somesuspicion attached to his valet, but that the case broke down on analibi. Yesterday a lady, who has been known as Mme. Henri Fournaye,occupying a small villa in the Rue Austerlitz, was reported to theauthorities by her servants as being insane. An examination showed shehad indeed developed mania of a dangerous and permanent form. Oninquiry, the police have discovered that Mme. Henri Fournaye onlyreturned from a journey to London on Tuesday last, and there isevidence to connect her with the crime at Westminster. A comparison ofphotographs has proved conclusively that M. Henri Fournaye and EduardoLucas were really one and the same person, and that the deceased hadfor some reason lived a double life in London and Paris. Mme.Fournaye, who is of Creole origin, is of an extremely excitablenature, and has suffered in the past from attacks of jealousy whichhave amounted to frenzy. It is conjectured that it was in one of thesethat she committed the terrible crime which has caused such asensation in London. Her movements upon the Monday night have notyet been traced, but it is undoubted that a woman answering to herdescription attracted much attention at Charing Cross Station onTuesday morning by the wildness of her appearance and the violenceof her gestures. It is probable, therefore, that the crime waseither committed when insane, or that its immediate effect was todrive the unhappy woman out of her mind. At present she is unable togive any coherent account of the past, and the doctors hold out nohopes of the reestablishment of her reason. There is evidence that awoman, who might have been Mme. Fournaye, was seen for some hours uponMonday night watching the house in Godolphin Street.

　　"What do you think of that, Holmes?" I had read the account aloud tohim, while he finished his breakfast.

　　"My dear Watson," said he, as he rose from the table and paced upand down the room, "You are most long-suffering, but if I have toldyou nothing in the last three days, it is because there is nothingto tell. Even now this report from Paris does not help us much.""Surely it is final as regards the man's death."

　　"The man's death is a mere incident- a trivial episode- incomparison with our real task, which is to trace this document andsave a European catastrophe. Only one important thing has happenedin the last three days, and that is that nothing has happened. I getreports almost hourly from the government, and it is certain thatnowhere in Europe is there any sign of trouble. Now, if this letterwere loose- no, it can't be loose- but if it isn't loose, where can itbe? Who has it? Why is it held back? That's the question that beats inmy brain like a hammer. Was it, indeed, a coincidence that Lucasshould meet his death on the night when the letter disappeared? Didthe letter ever reach him? If so, why is it not among his papers?Did this mad wife of his carry it off with her? If so, is it in herhouse in Paris? How could I search for it without the French policehaving their suspicions aroused? It is a case, my dear Watson, wherethe law is as dangerous to us as the criminals are. Every man's handis against us, and yet the interests at stake are colossal. Should Ibring it to a successful conclusion, it will certainly represent thecrowning glory of my career. Ah, here is my latest from the front!" Heglanced hurriedly at the note which had been handed in. "Halloa!Lestrade seems to have observed something of interest. Put on yourhat, Watson, and we will stroll down together to Westminster."It was my first visit to the scene of the crime- a high, dingy,narrow-chested house, prim, formal, and solid, like the centurywhich gave it birth. Lestrade's bulldog features gazed out at usfrom the front window, and he greeted us warmly when a big constablehad opened the door and let us in. The room into which we were shownwas that in which the crime had been committed, but no trace of it nowremained save an ugly, irregular stain upon the carpet. This carpetwas a small square drugget in the centre of the room, surrounded bya broad expanse of beautiful, old-fashioned wood-flooring in squareblocks, highly polished. Over the fireplace was a magnificent trophyof weapons, one of which had been used on that tragic night. In thewindow was a sumptuous writing-desk, and every detail of theapartment, the pictures, the rugs, and the hangings, all pointed toa taste which was luxurious to the verge of effeminacy."Seen the Paris news?' asked Lestrade.

　　Holmes nodded.

　　"Our French friends seem to have touched the spot this time. Nodoubt it's just as they say. She knocked at the door- surprisevisit, I guess, for he kept his life in water-tight compartments- helet her in, couldn't keep her in the street. She told him how shehad traced him, reproached him. One thing led to another, and thenwith that dagger so handy the end soon came. It wasn't all done inan instant, though, for these chairs were all swept over yonder, andhe had one in his hand as if he had tried to hold her off with it.We've got it all clear as if we had seen it."

　　Holmes raised his eyebrows.

　　"And yet you have sent for me?"

　　"Ah, yes, that's another matter- a mere trifle, but the sort ofthing you take an interest in- queer, you know, and what you mightcall freakish. It has nothing to do with the main fact- can't have, onthe face of it."

　　"What is it, then?"

　　"Well, you know, after a crime of this sort we are very careful tokeep things in their position. Nothing has been moved. Officer incharge here day and night. This morning, as the man was buried and theinvestigation over- so far as this room is concerned- we thought wecould tidy up a bit. This carpet. You see, it is not fastened down,only just laid there. We had occasion to raise it. We found-""Yes? You found-"

　　Holmes's face grew tense with anxiety.

　　"Well, I'm sure you would never guess in a hundred years what we didfind. You see that stain on the carpet? Well, a great deal must havesoaked through, must it not?"

　　"Undoubtedly it must."

　　"Well, you will be surprised to hear that there is no stain on thewhite woodwork to correspond."

　　"No stain! But there must-"

　　"Yes, so you would say. But the fact remains that there isn't."He took the corner of the carpet in his hand and, turning it over,he showed that it was indeed as he said.

　　"But the under side is as stained as the upper. It must have lefta mark."

　　Lestrade chuckled with delight at having puzzled the famous expert."Now, I'll show you the explanation. There is a second stain, but itdoes not correspond with the other. See for yourself." As he spokehe turned over another portion of the carpet, and there, sureenough, was a great crimson spill upon the square white facing ofthe old-fashioned floor. "What do you make of that, Mr. Holmes?""Why, it is simple enough. The two stains did correspond, but thecarpet has been turned round. As it was square and unfastened it waseasily done."

　　The official police don't need you, Mr. Holmes, to tell them thatthe carpet must have been turned round. That's clear enough, for thestains lie above each other- if you lay it over this way. But what Iwant to know is, who shifted the carpet, and why?"

　　I could see from Holmes's rigid face that he was vibrating withinward excitement.

　　"Look here, Lestrade," said he, "has that constable in the passagebeen in charge of the place all the time?"

　　"Yes, he has."

　　"Well, take my advice. Examine him carefully. Don't do it before us.Well wait here. You take him into the back room. You'll be more likelyto get a confession out of him alone. Ask him how he dared to admitpeople and leave them alone in this room. Don't ask him if he has doneit. Take it for granted. Tell him you know someone has been here.Press him. Tell him that a full confession is his only chance offorgiveness. Do exactly what I tell you!"

　　"By George, if he knows I'll have it out of him!" cried Lestrade. Hedarted into the hall, and a few moments later his bullying voicesounded from the back room.

　　"Now, Watson, now!" cried Holmes with frenzied eagerness. All thedemoniacal force of the man masked behind that listless manner burstout in a paroxysm of energy. He tore the drugget from the floor, andin an instant was down on his hands and knees clawing at each of thesquares of wood beneath it. One turned sideways as he dug his nailsinto the edge of it. It hinged back like the lid of a box. A smallblack cavity opened beneath it. Holmes plunged his eager hand intoit and drew it out with a bitter snarl of anger and disappointment. Itwas empty.

　　"Quick, Watson, quick! Get it back again!" The wooden lid wasreplaced, and the drugget had only just been drawn straight whenLestrade's voice was heard in the passage. He found Holmes leaninglanguidly against the mantelpiece, resigned and patient,endeavouring to conceal his irrepressible yawns.

　　"Sorry to keep you waiting, Mr. Holmes. I can see that you are boredto death with the whole affair. Well, he has confessed, all right.Come in here, MacPherson. Let these gentlemen hear of your mostinexcusable conduct."

　　The big constable, very hot and penitent, sidled into the room."I meant no harm, sir, I'm sure. The young woman came to the doorlast evening- mistook the house, she did. And then we got talking.It's lonesome, when you're on duty here all day."

　　"Well, what happened then?"

　　"She wanted to see where the crime was done- had read about it inthe papers, she said. She was a very respectable, well-spoken youngwoman, sir, and I saw no harm in letting her have a peep. When she sawthat mark on the carpet, down she dropped on the floor, and lay asif she were dead. I ran to the back and got some water, but I couldnot bring her to. Then I went round the corner to the Ivy Plant forsome brandy, and by the time I had brought it back the young woman hadrecovered and was off- ashamed of herself, I daresay, and dared notface me."

　　"How about moving that drugget?"

　　"Well, sir, it was a bit rumpled, certainly, when I came back. Yousee, she fell on it and it lies on a polished floor with nothing tokeep it in place. I straightened it out afterwards."

　　"It's a lesson to you that you can't deceive me, ConstableMacPherson," said Lestrade, with dignity. "No doubt you thought thatyour breach of duty could never be discovered, and yet a mere glanceat that drugget was enough to convince me that someone had beenadmitted to the room. It's lucky for you, my man, that nothing ismissing, or you would find yourself in Queer Street. I'm sorry to havecalled you down over such a petty business, Mr. Holmes, but Ithought the point of the second stain not corresponding with the firstwould interest you."

　　"Certainly, it was most interesting. Has this woman only been hereonce, constable?"

　　"Yes, sir, only once."

　　"Who was she?"

　　"Don't know the name, sir. Was answering an advertisement abouttypewriting and came to the wrong number- very pleasant, genteel youngwoman, sir."

　　"Tall? Handsome?"

　　"Yes, sir, she was a well-grown young woman. I suppose you might sayshe was handsome. Perhaps some would say she was very handsome. 'Oh,officer, do let me have a peep!' says she. She had pretty, coaxingways, as you might say, and I thought there was no harm in letting herjust put her head through the door."

　　"How was she dressed?"

　　"Quiet, sir- a long mantle down to her feet."

　　"What time was it?"

　　"It was just growing dusk at the time. They were lighting thelamps as I came back with the brandy."

　　"Very good," said Holmes. "Come, Watson, I think that we have moreimportant work elsewhere."

　　As we left the house Lestrade remained in the front room, whilethe repentant constable opened the door to let us out. Holmes turnedon the step and held up something in his hand. The constable staredintently.

　　"Good Lord, sir!" he cried, with amazement on his face. Holmes puthis finger on his lips, replaced his hand in his breast pocket, andburst out laughing as we turned down the street. "Excellent!" said he."Come, friend Watson, the curtain rings up for the last act. Youwill be relieved to hear that there will be no war, that the RightHonourable Trelawney Hope will suffer no setback in his brilliantcareer, that the indiscreet Sovereign will receive no punishment forhis indiscretion, that the Prime Minister will have no Europe ancomplication to deal with, and that with a little tact andmanagement upon our part nobody will be a penny the worse for whatmight have been a very ugly incident."

　　My mind filled with admiration for this extraordinary man."You have solved it!" I cried.

　　"Hardly that, Watson. There are some points which are as dark asever. But we have so much that it will be our own fault if we cannotget the rest. We will go straight to Whitehall Terrace and bring thematter to a head."

　　When we arrived at the residence of the European Secretary it wasfor Lady Hilda Trelawney Hope that Sherlock Holmes inquired. We wereshown into the morning-room.

　　"Mr. Holmes!" said the lady, and her face was pink with herindignation. "This is surely most unfair and ungenerous upon yourpart. I desired, as I have explained, to keep my visit to you asecret, lest my husband should think that I was intruding into hisaffairs. And yet you compromise me by coming here and so showingthat there are business relations between us."

　　"Unfortunately, madam, I had no possible alternative. I have beencommissioned to recover this immensely important paper. I musttherefore ask you, madam, to be kind enough to place it in my hands."The lady sprang to her feet, with the colour all dashed in aninstant from her beautiful face. Her eyes glazed- she tottered- Ithought that she would faint. Then with a grand effort she ralliedfrom the shock, and a supreme astonishment and indignation chasedevery other expression from her features.

　　"You- you insult me, Mr. Holmes."

　　"Come, come, madam, it is useless. Give up the letter."She darted to the bell.

　　"The butler shall show you out."

　　"Do not ring, Lady Hilda. If you do, then all my earnest effortsto avoid a scandal will be frustrated. Give up the letter and all willbe set right. If you will work with me I can arrange everything. Ifyou work against me I must expose you."

　　She stood grandly defiant, a queenly figure, her eyes fixed upon hisas if she would read his very soul. Her hand was on the bell, butshe had forborne to ring it.

　　"You are trying to frighten me. It is not a very manly thing, Mr.Holmes, to come here and browbeat a woman. You say that you knowsomething. What is it that you know?"

　　"Pray sit down, madam. You will hurt yourself there if you fall. Iwill not speak until you sit down. Thank you."

　　"I give you five minutes, Mr. Holmes."

　　"One is enough, Lady Hilda. I know of your visit to Eduardo Lucas,of your giving him this document, of your ingenious return to the roomlast night, and of the manner in which you took the letter from thehiding-place under the carpet."

　　She stared at him with an ashen face and gulped twice before shecould speak.

　　"You are mad, Mr. Holmes- you are mad!" she cried, at last.He drew a small piece of cardboard from his pocket. It was theface of a woman cut out of a portrait.

　　"I have carried this because I thought it might be useful," said he."The policeman has recognized it."

　　She gave a gasp, and her head dropped back in the chair."Come, Lady Hilda. You have the letter. The matter may still beadjusted. I have no desire to bring trouble to you. My duty endswhen I have returned the lost letter to your husband. Take my adviceand be frank with me. It is your only chance."

　　Her courage was admirable. Even now she would not own defeat."I tell you again, Mr. Holmes, that you are under some absurdillusion."

　　Holmes rose from his chair.

　　"I am sorry for you, Lady Hilda. I have done my best for you. Ican see that it is all in vain."

　　He rang the bell. The butler entered.

　　"Is Mr. Trelawney Hope at home?"

　　"He will be home, sir, at a quarter to one."

　　Holmes glanced at his watch.

　　"Still a quarter of an hour," said he. "Very good, I shall wait."The butler had hardly closed the door behind him when Lady Hilda wasdown on her knees at Holmes's feet, her hands outstretched, herbeautiful face upturned and wet with her tears.

　　"Oh, spare me, Mr. Holmes! Spare me!" she pleaded, in a frenzy ofsupplication. "For heaven's sake, don't tell him! I love him so! Iwould not bring one shadow on his life, and this I know would breakhis noble heart."

　　Holmes raised the lady. "I am thankful, madam, that you have come toyour senses even at this last moment! There is not an instant to lose.Where is the letter?"

　　She darted across to a writing-desk, unlocked it, and drew out along blue envelope.

　　"Here it is, Mr. Holmes. Would to heaven I had never seen it!""How can we return it?" Holmes muttered. "Quick, quick, we mustthink of some way! Where is the despatch-box?"

　　"Still in his bedroom."

　　"What a stroke of luck! Quick, madam, bring it here!" A moment latershe had appeared with a red flat box in her hand.

　　"How did you open it before? You have a duplicate key? Yes, ofcourse you have. Open it!"

　　From out of her bosom Lady Hilda had drawn a small key. The box flewopen. It was stuffed with papers. Holmes thrust the blue envelope deepdown into the heart of them, between the leaves of some otherdocument. The box was shut, locked, and returned to the bedroom."Now we are ready for him," said Holmes. "We have still ten minutes.I am going far to screen you, Lady Hilda. In return you will spend thetime in telling me frankly the real meaning of this extraordinaryaffair."

　　"Mr. Holmes, I will tell you everything," cried the lady. "Oh, Mr.Holmes, I would cut off my right hand before I gave him a moment ofsorrow! There is no woman in all London who loves her husband as I do,and yet if he knew how I have acted- how I have been compelled to act-he would never forgive me. For his own honour stands so high that hecould not forget or pardon a lapse in another. Help me, Mr. Holmes! Myhappiness, his happiness, our very lives are at stake!""Quick, madam, the time grows short!"

　　"It was a letter of mine, Mr. Holmes, an indiscreet letter writtenbefore my marriage- a foolish letter, a letter of an impulsive, lovinggirl. I meant no harm, and yet he would have thought it criminal.Had he read that letter his confidence would have been foreverdestroyed. It is years since I wrote it. I had thought that thewhole matter was forgotten. Then at last I heard from this man, Lucas,that it had passed into his hands, and that he would lay it beforemy husband. I implored his mercy. He said that he would return myletter if I would bring him a certain document which he described inmy husband's despatch-box. He had some spy in the office who hadtold him of its existence. He assured me that no harm could come to myhusband. Put yourself in my position, Mr. Holmes! What was I to do?""Take your husband into your confidence."

　　"I could not, Mr. Holmes, I could not! On the one side seemedcertain ruin, on the other, terrible as it seemed to take my husband'spaper, still in a matter of politics I could not understand theconsequences, while in a matter of love and trust they were only tooclear to me. I did it, Mr. Holmes! I took an impression of his key.This man, Lucas, furnished a duplicate. I opened his despatch-box,took the paper, and conveyed it to Godolphin Street."

　　"What happened there, madam?"

　　"I tapped at the door as agreed. Lucas opened it. I followed himinto his room, leaving the hall door ajar behind me, for I feared tobe alone with the man. I remember that there was a woman outside asI entered. Our business was soon done. He had my letter on his desk, Ihanded him the document. He gave me the letter. At this instantthere was a sound at the door. There were steps in the passage.Lucas quickly turned back the drugget, thrust the document into somehiding-place there, and covered it over.

　　"What happened after that is like some fearful dream. I have avision of a dark, frantic face, of a woman's voice, which screamedin French, 'My waiting is not in vain. At last, at last I have foundyou with her!' There was a savage struggle. I saw him with a chairin his hand, a knife gleamed in hers. I rushed from the horriblescene, ran from the house, and only next morning in the paper did Ilearn the dreadful result. That night I was happy, for I had myletter, and I had not seen yet what the future would bring."It was the next morning that I realized that I had only exchangedone trouble for another. My husband's anguish at the loss of his paperwent to my heart. I could hardly prevent myself from there and thenkneeling down at his feet and telling him what I had done. But thatagain would mean a confession of the past. I came to you thatmorning in order to understand the full enormity of my offence. Fromthe instant that I grasped it my whole mind was turned to the onethought of getting back my husband's paper. It must still be whereLucas had placed it, for it was concealed before this dreadful womanentered the room. If it had not been for her coming, I should not haveknown where his biding-place was. How was I to get into the room?For two days I watched the place, but the door was never left open.Last night I made a last attempt. What I did and how I succeeded,you have already learned. I brought the paper back with me, andthought of destroying it, since I could see no way of returning itwithout confessing my guilt to my husband. Heavens, I hear his stepupon the stair!"

　　The European Secretary burst excitedly into the room.

　　"Any news, Mr. Holmes, any news?" he cried.

　　"I have some hopes."

　　"Ah, thank heaven!" His face became radiant. "The Prime Ministeris lunching with me. May he share your hopes? He has nerves ofsteel, and yet I know that he has hardly slept since this terribleevent. Jacobs, will you ask the Prime Minister to come up? As toyou, dear, I fear that this is a matter of politics. We will joinyou in a few minutes in the dining-room."

　　The Prime Minister's manner was subdued, but I could see by thegleam of his eyes and the twitchings of his bony hands that heshared the excitement of his young colleague.

　　"I understand that you have something to report, Mr. Holmes?""Purely negative as yet," my friend answered. "I have inquired atevery point where it might be, and I am sure that there is no dangerto be apprehended."

　　"But that is not enough, Mr. Holmes. We cannot live forever onsuch a volcano. We must have something definite."

　　"I am in hopes of getting it. That is why I am here. The more Ithink of the matter the more convinced I am that the letter hasnever left this house."

　　"Mr. Holmes!"

　　"If it had it would certainly have been public by now.""But why should anyone take it in order to keep it in his house?""I am not convinced that anyone did take it."

　　"Then how could it leave the despatch-box?"

　　"I am not convinced that it ever did leave the despatch-box.""Mr. Holmes, this joking is very ill-timed. You have my assurancethat it left the box."

　　"Have you examined the box since Tuesday morning?"

　　"No. It was not necessary."

　　"You may conceivably have overlooked it."

　　"Impossible, I say."

　　"But I am not convinced of it. I have known such things to happen. Ipresume there are other papers there. Well, it may have got mixed withthem."

　　"It was on the top."

　　"Someone may have shaken the box and displaced it."

　　"No, no, I had everything out."

　　"Surely it is easily, decided, Hope," said the Premier. "Let us havethe despatch-box brought in."

　　The Secretary rang the bell.

　　"Jacobs, bring down my despatch-box. This is a farcical waste oftime, but still, if nothing else will satisfy you, it shall be done.Thank you, Jacobs, put it here. I have always had the key on mywatch-chain. Here are the papers, you see. Letter from Lord Merrow,report from Sir Charles Hardy, memorandum from Belgrade, note on theRusso-German grain taxes, letter from Madrid, note from LordFlowers- Good heavens! what is this? Lord Bellinger! Lord Bellinger!"The Premier snatched the blue envelope from his hand.

　　"Yes, it is it- and the letter is intact. Hope, I congratulate you.""Thank you! Thank you! What a weight from my heart. But this isinconceivable- impossible. Mr. Holmes, you are a wizard, a sorcerer!How did you know it was there?"

　　"Because I knew it was nowhere else."

　　"I cannot believe my eyes!" He ran wildly to the door. "Where ismy wife? I must tell her that all is well. Hilda! Hilda!" we heard hisvoice on the stairs.

　　The Premier looked at Holmes with twinkling eyes.

　　"Come, sir," said he. "There is more in this than meets the eye. Howcame the letter back in the box?"

　　Holmes turned away smiling from the keen scrutiny of those wonderfuleyes.

　　"We also have our diplomatic secrets," said he and, picking up hishat, he turned to the door.

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1904

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE SIX NAPOLEONS

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　It was no very unusual thing for Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard,to look in upon us of an evening, and his visits were welcome toSherlock Holmes, for they enabled him to keep in touch with all thatwas going on at the police headquarters. In return for the newswhich Lestrade would bring, Holmes was always ready to listen withattention to the details of any case upon which the detective wasengaged, and was able occasionally, without any active interference,to give some hint or suggestion drawn from his own vast knowledgeand experience.

　　On this particular evening, Lestrade had spoken of the weather andthe newspapers. Then he had fallen silent, puffing thoughtfully at hiscigar. Holmes looked keenly at him.

　　"Anything remarkable on hand?" he asked.

　　"Oh, no, Mr. Holmes- nothing very particular."

　　"Then tell me about it."

　　Lestrade laughed.

　　"Well, Mr. Holmes, there is no use denying that there is somethingon my mind. And yet it is such an absurd business, that I hesitated tobother you about it. On the other hand, although it is trivial, itis undoubtedly queer, and I know that you have a taste for all that isout of the common. But, in my opinion, it comes more in Dr. Watson'sline than ours."

　　"Disease?" said I.

　　"Madness, anyhow. And a queer madness, too. You wouldn't think therewas anyone living at this time of day who had such a hatred ofNapoleon the First that he would break any image of him that hecould see."

　　Holmes sank back in his chair.

　　"That's no business of mine," said he.

　　"Exactly. That's what I said. But then, when the man commitsburglary in order to break images which are not his own, that bringsit away from the doctor and on to the policeman."

　　Holmes sat up again.

　　"Burglary! This is more interesting. Let me hear the details."Lestrade took out his official notebook and refreshed his memoryfrom its pages.

　　"The first case reported was four days ago," said he. "It was at theshop of Morse Hudson, who has a place for the sale of pictures andstatues in the Kennington Road. The assistant had left the frontshop for an instant, when he heard a crash, and hurrying in he found aplaster bust of Napoleon, which stood with several other works ofart upon the counter, lying shivered into fragments. He rushed outinto the road, but, although several passers-by declared that they hadnoticed a man run out of the shop, he could neither see anyone norcould he find any means of identifying the rascal. It seemed to be oneof those senseless acts of Hooliganism which occur from time totime, and it was reported to the constable on the beat as such. Theplaster cast was not worth more than a few shillings, and the wholeaffair appeared to be too childish for any particular investigation."The second case, however, was more serious, and also more singular.It occurred only last night.

　　"In Kennington Road, and within a few hundred yards of MorseHudson's shop, there lives a well-known medical practitioner, namedDr. Barnicot, who has one of the largest practices upon the south sideof the Thames. His residence and principal consulting-room is atKennington Road, but he has a branch surgery and dispensary at LowerBrixton Road, two miles away. This Dr. Barnicot is an enthusiasticadmirer of Napoleon, and his house is full of books, pictures, andrelics of the French Emperor. Some little time ago he purchased fromMorse Hudson two duplicate plaster casts of the famous head ofNapoleon by the French sculptor, Devine. One of these he placed in hishall in the house at Kennington Road, and the other on the mantelpieceof the surgery at Lower Brixton. Well, when Dr. Barnicot came downthis morning he was astonished to find that his house had been burgledduring the night, but that nothing had been taken save the plasterhead from the hall. It had been carried out and had been dashedsavagely against the garden wall, under which its splintered fragmentswere discovered."

　　Holmes rubbed his hands.

　　"This is certainly very novel," said he.

　　"I thought it would please you. But I have not got to the end yet.Dr. Barnicot was due at his surgery at twelve o'clock, and you canimagine his amazement when, on arriving there, he found that thewindow had been opened in the night and that the broken pieces ofhis second bust were strewn all over the room. It had been smashedto atoms where it stood. In neither case were there any signs whichcould give us a clue as to the criminal or lunatic who had done themischief. Now, Mr. Holmes, you have got the facts."

　　"They are singular, not to say grotesque," said Holmes. "May I askwhether the two busts smashed in Dr. Barnicot's rooms were the exactduplicates of the one which was destroyed in Morse Hudson's shop?""They were taken from the same mould."

　　"Such a fact must tell against the theory that the man who breaksthem is influenced by any general hatred of Napoleon. Consideringhow many hundreds of statues of the great Emperor must exist inLondon, it is too much to suppose such a coincidence as that apromiscuous iconoclast should chance to begin upon three specimensof the same bust."

　　"Well, I thought as you do," said Lestrade. "On the other hand, thisMorse Hudson is the purveyor of busts in that part of London, andthese three were the only ones which had been in his shop for years.So, although, as you say, there are many hundreds of statues inLondon, it is very probable that these three were the only ones inthat district. Therefore, a local fanatic would begin with them.What do you think, Dr. Watson?"

　　"There are no limits to the possibilities of monomania," I answered."There is the condition which the modern French psychologists havecalled the 'idee fixe,' which may be trifling in character, andaccompanied by complete sanity in every other way. A man who hadread deeply about Napoleon, or who had possibly received somehereditary family injury through the great war, might conceivably formsuch an idee fixe and under its influence be capable of anyfantastic outrage."

　　"That won't do, my dear Watson," said Holmes, shaking his head, "forno amount of idee fixe would enable your interesting monomaniac tofind out where these busts were situated."

　　"Well, how do you explain it?"

　　"I don't attempt to do so. I would only observe that there is acertain method in the gentleman's eccentric proceedings. Forexample, in Dr. Barnicot's hall, where a sound might arouse thefamily, the bust was taken outside before being broken, whereas in thesurgery, where there was less danger of an alarm, it was smashed whereit stood. The affair seems absurdly trifling, and yet I dare callnothing trivial when I reflect that some of my most classic cases havehad the least promising commencement. You will remember, Watson, howthe dreadful business of the Abernetty family was first brought tomy notice by the depth which the parsley had sunk into the butter upona hot day. I can't afford, therefore, to smile at your three brokenbusts, Lestrade, and I shall be very much obliged to you if you willlet me hear of any fresh development of so singular a chain ofevents."

　　The development for which my friend had asked came in a quickerand an infinitely more tragic form than he could have imagined. Iwas still dressing in my bedroom next morning, when there was a tap atthe door and Holmes entered, a telegram in his hand. He read it aloud:"Come instantly, 131 Pitt Street, Kensington.

　　"LESTRADE."

　　"What is it, then?" I asked.

　　"Don't know- may be anything. But I suspect it is the sequel ofthe story of the statues. In that case our friend the image-breakerhas begun operations in another quarter of London. There's coffee onthe table, Watson, and I have a cab at the door."

　　In half an hour we had reached Pitt Street, a quiet little backwaterjust beside one of the briskest currents of London life. No. 131 wasone of a row, all flat-chested, respectable, and most unromanticdwellings. As we drove up, we found the railings in front of the houselined by a curious crowd. Holmes whistled.

　　"By George! It's attempted murder at the least. Nothing less willbold the London message-boy. There's a deed of violence indicated inthat fellow's round shoulders and outstretched neck. What's this,Watson? The top steps swilled down and the other ones dry. Footstepsenough, anyhow! Well, well, there's Lestrade at the front window,and we shall soon know all about it."

　　The official received us with a very grave face and showed us into asitting-room, where an exceedingly unkempt and agitated elderly man,clad in a flannel dressing-gown, was pacing up and down. He wasintroduced to us as the owner of the house- Mr. Horace Harker, ofthe Central Press Syndicate.

　　"It's the Napoleon bust business again," said Lestrade. "Youseemed interested last night, Mr. Holmes, so I thought perhaps youwould be glad to be present now that the affair has taken a verymuch graver turn."

　　"What has it turned to, then?"

　　"To murder. Mr. Harker, will you tell these gentlemen exactly whathas occurred?"

　　The man in the dressing-gown turned upon us with a most melancholyface.

　　"It's an extraordinary thing," said be, "that all my life I havebeen collecting other people's news, and now that a real piece of newshas come my own way I am so confused and bothered that I can't put twowords together. If I had come in here as a journalist, I should haveinterviewed myself and had two columns in every evening paper. As itis, I am giving away valuable copy by telling my story over and overto a string of different people, and I can make no use of it myself.However, I've heard your name, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, and if you'll onlyexplain this queer business, I shall be paid for my trouble in tellingyou the story."

　　Holmes sat down and listened.

　　"It all seems to centre round that bust of Napoleon which I boughtfor this very room about four months ago. I picked it up cheap fromHarding Brothers, two doors from the High Street Station. A great dealof my journalistic work is done at night, and I often write untilthe early morning. So it was to-day. I was sitting in my den, which isat the back of the top of the house, about three o'clock, when I wasconvinced that I heard some sounds downstairs. I listened, but theywere not repeated, and I concluded that they came from outside. Thensuddenly, about five minutes later, there came a most horrible yell-the most dreadful sound, Mr. Holmes, that ever I heard. It will ringin my ears as long as I live. I sat frozen with horror for a minute ortwo. Then I seized the poker and went downstairs. When I enteredthis room I found the window wide open, and I at once observed thatthe bust was gone from the mantelpiece. Why any burglar should takesuch a thing passes my understanding, for it was only a plaster castand of no real value whatever.

　　"You can see for yourself that anyone going out through that openwindow could reach the front doorstep by taking a long stride. Thiswas clearly what the burglar had done, so I went round and openedthe door. Stepping out into the dark, I nearly fell over a dead man,who was lying there. I ran back for a light and there was the poorfellow, a great gash in his throat and the whole place swimming inblood. He lay on his back, his knees drawn up, and his mouthhorribly open. I shall see him in my dreams. I had just time to blowon my police-whistle, and then I must have fainted, for I knew nothingmore until I found the policeman standing over me in the hall.""Well, who was the murdered man?" asked Holmes.

　　"There's nothing to show who he was," said Lestrade. "You shallsee the body at the mortuary, but we have made nothing of it up tonow. He is a tall man, sunburned, very powerful, not more than thirty.He is poorly dressed, and yet does not appear to be a labourer. Ahorn-handled clasp knife was lying in a pool of blood beside him.Whether it was the weapon which did the deed, or whether it belongedto the dead man, I do not know. There was no name on his clothing, andnothing in his pockets save an apple, some string, a shilling map ofLondon, and a photograph. Here it is."

　　It was evidently taken by a snapshot from a small camera. Itrepresented an alert, sharp-featured simian man, with thick eyebrowsand a very peculiar projection of the lower part of the face, like themuzzle of a baboon.

　　"And what became of the bust?" asked Holmes, after a careful studyof this picture.

　　"We had news of it just before you came. It has been found in thefront garden of an empty house in Campden House Road. It was brokeninto fragments. I am going round now to see it. Will you come?""Certainly. I must just take one look round." He examined the carpetand the window. "The fellow had either very long legs or was a mostactive man," said he. "With an area beneath, it was no mean feat toreach that window ledge and open that window. Getting back wascomparatively simple. Are you coming with us to see the remains ofyour bust, Mr. Harker?"

　　The disconsolate journalist had seated himself at a writing-table."I must try and make something of it," said he, "though I have nodoubt that the first editions of the evening papers are out alreadywith full details. It's like my luck! You remember when the stand fellat Doncaster? Well, I was the only journalist in the stand, and myjournal the only one that had no account of it, for I was too shakento write it. And now I'll be too late with a murder done on my owndoorstep."

　　As we left the room, we heard his pen travelling shrilly over thefoolscap.

　　The spat where the fragments of the bust had been found was only afew hundred yards away. For the first time our eyes rested upon thispresentment of the great emperor, which seemed to raise such franticand destructive hatred in the mind of the unknown. It lay scattered,in splintered shards, upon the grass. Holmes picked up several of themand examined them carefully. I was convinced, from his intent face andhis purposeful manner, that at last he was upon a clue."Well?" asked Lestrade.

　　Holmes shrugged his shoulders.

　　"We have a long way to go yet," said he. "And yet- and yet- well, wehave some suggestive facts to act upon. The possession of thistrifling bust was worth more, in the eyes of this strange criminal,than a human life. That is one point. Then there is the singularfact that he did not break it in the house, or immediately outside thehouse, if to break it was his sole object."

　　"He was rattled and bustled by meeting this other fellow. Hehardly knew what he was doing."

　　"Well, that's likely enough. But I wish to call your attentionvery particularly to the position of this house, in the garden ofwhich the bust was destroyed."

　　Lestrade looked about him.

　　"It was an empty house, and so he knew that he would not bedisturbed in the garden."

　　"Yes, but there is another empty house farther up the street whichhe must have passed before he came to this one. Why did he not breakit there, since it is evident that every yard that he carried itincreased the risk of someone meeting him?"

　　"I give it up," said Lestrade.

　　Holmes pointed to the street lamp above our heads.

　　"He could see what he was doing here, and he could not there. Thatwas his reason."

　　"By Jove! that's true," said the detective. "Now that I come tothink of it, Dr. Barnicot's bust was broken not far from his red lamp.Well, Mr. Holmes, what are we to do with that fact?"

　　"To remember it- to docket it. We may come on something laterwhich will bear upon it. What steps do you propose to take now,Lestrade?"

　　"The most practical way of getting at it, in my opinion, is toidentify the dead man. There should be no difficulty about that.When we have found who he is and who his associates are, we shouldhave a good start in learning what he was doing in Pitt Street lastnight, and who it was who met him and killed him on the doorstep ofMr. Horace Harker. Don't you think so?"

　　"No doubt, and yet it is not quite the way in which I shouldapproach the case."

　　"What would you do then?"

　　"Oh, you must not let me influence you in any way. I suggest thatyou go on your line and I on mine. We can compare notes afterwards,and each will supplement the other."

　　"Very good," said Lestrade.

　　"If you are going back to Pitt Street, you might see Mr. HoraceHarker. Tell him for me that I have quite made up my mind, and that itis certain that a dangerous homicidal lunatic, with Napoleonicdelusions, was in his house last night. It will be useful for hisarticle."

　　Lestrade stared.

　　"You don't seriously believe that?"

　　Holmes smiled.

　　"Don't I? Well, perhaps I don't. But I am sure that it will interestMr. Horace Harker and the subscribers of the Central PressSyndicate. Now, Watson, I think that we shall find that we have a longand rather complex day's work before us. I should be glad, Lestrade,if you could make it convenient to meet us at Baker Street at sixo'clock this evening. Until then I should like to keep thisphotograph, found in the dead man's pocket. It is possible that Imay have to ask your company and assistance upon a small expeditionwhich will have be undertaken to-night, if my chain of reasoningshould prove to be correct. Until then good-bye and good luck!"Sherlock Holmes and I walked together to the High Street, where westopped at the shop of Harding Brothers, whence the bust had beenpurchased. A young assistant informed us that Mr. Harding would beabsent until afternoon, and that he was himself a newcomer, whocould give us no information. Holmes's face showed his

　　disappointment and annoyance.

　　"Well, well, we can't expect to have it all our own way, Watson," hesaid, at last. "We must come back in the afternoon, if Mr. Hardingwill not be here until then. I am, as you have no doubt surmised,endeavouring to trace these busts to their source, in order to find ifthere is not something peculiar which may account for their remarkablefate. Let us make for Mr. Morse Hudson, of the Kennington Road, andsee if he can throw any light upon the problem."

　　A drive of an hour brought us to the picture-dealer's establishment.He was a small, stout man with a red face and a peppery manner."Yes, sir. On my very counter, sir," said he. "What we pay rates andtaxes for I don't know, when any ruffian can come in and break one'sgoods. Yes, sir, it was I who sold Dr. Barnicot his two statues.Disgraceful, sir! A Nihilist plot- that's what I make it. No one butan anarchist would go about breaking statues. Red republicans-that's what I call 'em. Who did I get the statues from? I don't seewhat that has to do with it. Well, if you really want to know, I gotthem from Gelder & Co., in Church Street, Stepney. They are awell-known house in the trade, and have been this twenty years. Howmany had I? Three- two and one are three- two of Dr. Barnicot's, andone smashed in broad daylight on my own counter. Do I know thatphotograph? No, I don't. Yes, I do, though. Why, it's Beppo. He wasa kind of Italian piece-work man, who made himself useful in the shop.He could carve a bit, and gild and frame, and do odd jobs. Thefellow left me last week, and I've heard nothing of him since. No, Idon't know where he came from nor where he went to. I had nothingagainst him while he was here. He was gone two days before the bustwas smashed."

　　"Well, that's all we could reasonably expect from Morse Hudson,"said Holmes, as we emerged from the shop. We have this Beppo as acommon factor, both in Kennington and in Kensington, so that isworth a ten-mile drive. Now, Watson, let us make for Gelder & Co.,of Stepney, the source and origin of the busts. I shall be surprisedif we don't get some help down there."

　　In rapid succession we passed through the fringe of fashionableLondon, hotel London, theatrical London, literary London, commercialLondon, and, finally, maritime London, till we came to a riversidecity of a hundred thousand souls, where the tenement houses swelterand reek with the outcasts of Europe. Here, in a broad thoroughfare, once the abode of wealthy City merchants, we found the sculptureworks for which we searched. Outside was a considerable yard full ofmonumental masonry. Inside was a large room in which fifty workerswere carving or moulding. The manager, a big blond German, received uscivilly and gave a clear answer to all Holmes's questions. A referenceto his books showed that hundreds of casts had been taken from amarble copy of Devine's head of Napoleon, but that the three which hadbeen sent to Morse Hudson a year or so before had been half of a batchof six, the other three being sent to Harding Brothers, of Kensington.There was no reason why those six should be different from any ofthe other casts. He could suggest no possible cause why anyoneshould wish to destroy them- in fact, he laughed at the idea. Theirwholesale price was six shillings, but the retailer would get twelveor more. The cast was taken in two moulds from each side of theface, and then these two profiles of plaster of Paris were joinedtogether to make the complete bust. The work was usually done byItalians, in the room we were in. When finished, the busts were put ona table in the passage to dry, and afterwards stored. That was allhe could tell us.

　　But the production of the photograph had a remarkable effect uponthe manager. His face flushed with anger, and his brows knotted overhis blue Teutonic eyes.

　　"Ah, the rascal!" he cried. "Yes, indeed, I know him very well. Thishas always been a respectable establishment, and the only time that wehave ever had the police in it was over this very fellow. It wasmore than a year ago now. He knifed another Italian in the street, andthen he came to the works with the police on his heels, and he wastaken here. Beppo was his name- his second name I never knew. Serve meright for engaging a man with such a face. But he was a goodworkman- one of the best."

　　"What did he get?"

　　"The man lived and he got off with a year. I have no doubt he is outnow, but he has not dared to show his nose here. We have a cousin ofhis here, and I daresay he could tell you where he is.""No, no," cried Holmes, "not a word to the cousin- not a word, I begof you. The matter is very important, and the farther I go with it,the more important it seems to grow. When you referred in yourledger to the sale of those casts I observed that the date was June3rd of last year. Could you give me the date when Beppo was arrested?""I could tell you roughly by the pay-list," the manager answered."Yes," he continued, after some turning over of pages, "he was paidlast on May 20th."

　　"Thank you," said Holmes. "I don't think that I need intrude uponyour time and patience any more." With a last word of caution thathe should say nothing as to our researches, we turned our faceswestward once more.

　　The afternoon was far advanced before we were able to snatch a hastyluncheon at a restaurant. A news-bill at the entrance announced"Kensington Outrage. Murder by a Madman," and the contents of thepaper showed that Mr. Horace Harker had got his account into printafter all. Two columns were occupied with a highly sensational andflowery rendering of the whole incident. Holmes propped it against thecruet-stand and read it while he ate. Once or twice he chuckled."This is all right, Watson," said he. "Listen to this:

　　"It is satisfactory to know that there can be no difference ofopinion upon this case, since Mr. Lestrade, one of the mostexperienced members of the official force, and Mr. Sherlock Holmes,the well-known consulting expert, have each come to the conclusionthat the grotesque series of incidents, which have ended in sotragic a fashion, arise from lunacy rather than from deliberate crime.No explanation save mental aberration can cover the facts.The Press, Watson, is a most valuable institution, if you only knowhow to use it. And now, if you have quite finished, we will harkback to Kensington and see what the manager of Harding Brothers has tosay on the matter."

　　The founder of that great emporium proved to be a brisk, crisplittle person, very dapper and quick, with a clear head and a readytongue.

　　"Yes, sir, I have already read the account in the evening papers.Mr. Horace Harker is a customer of ours. We supplied him with the bustsome months ago. We ordered three busts of that sort from Gelder &Co., of Stepney. They are all sold now. To whom? Oh, I daresay byconsulting our sales book we could very easily tell you. Yes, wehave the entries here. One to Mr. Harker you see, and one to Mr.Josiah Brown, of Labumum Lodge, Labumum Vale, Chiswick, and one to Mr.Sandeford, of Lower Grove Road, Reading. No, I have never seen thisface which you show me in the photograph. You would hardly forgetit, would you, sir, for I've seldom seen an uglier. Have we anyItalians on the staff? Yes, sir, we have several among ourworkpeople and cleaners. I daresay they might get a peep at that salesbook if they wanted to. There is no particular reason for keeping awatch upon that book. Well, well, it's a very strange business, andI hope that you will let me know if anything comes of your inquiries."Holmes had taken several notes during Mr. Harding's evidence, andI could see that he was thoroughly satisfied by the turn which affairswere taking. He made no remark, however, save that, unless we hurried,we should be late for our appointment with Lestrade. Sure enough, whenwe reached Baker Street the detective was already there, and wefound him pacing up and down in a fever of impatience. His look ofimportance showed that his day's work had not been in vain."Well?" he asked. "What luck, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"We have had a very busy day, and not entirely a wasted one," myfriend explained. "We have seen both the retailers and also thewholesale manufacturers. I can trace each of the busts now from thebeginning."

　　"The busts" cried Lestrade. "Well, well, you have your ownmethods, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, and it is not for me to say a wordagainst them, but I think I have done a better day's work than you.I have identified the dead man."

　　"You don't say so?"

　　"And found a cause for the crime."

　　"Splendid!"

　　"We have an inspector who makes a specialty of Saffron Hill andthe Italian Quarter. Well, this dead man had some Catholic emblemround his neck, and that, along with his colour, made me think hewas from the South. Inspector Hill knew him the moment he caught sightof him. His name is Pietro Venucci, from Naples, and he is one ofthe greatest cut-throats in London. He is connected with the Mafia,which, as you know, is a secret political society, enforcing itsdecrees by murder. Now, you see how the affair begins to clear up. Theother fellow is probably an Italian also, and a member of the Mafia.He has broken the rules in some fashion. Pietro is set upon his track.Probably the photograph we found in his pocket is the man himself,so that he may not knife the wrong person. He dogs the fellow, he seeshim enter a house, he waits outside for him, and in the scuffle hereceives his own death-wound. How is that, Mr. Sherlock Holmes?"Holmes clapped his hands approvingly.

　　"Excellent, Lestrade, excellent!" he cried. "But I didn't quitefollow your explanation of the destruction of the busts.""The busts! You never can get those busts out of your head. Afterall, that is nothing; petty larceny, six months at the most. It is themurder that we are really investigating, and I tell you that I amgathering all the threads into my hands."

　　"And the next stage?"

　　"Is a very simple one. I shall go down with Hill to the ItalianQuarter, find the man whose photograph we have got, and arrest himon the charge of murder. Will you come with us?"

　　"I think not. I fancy we can attain our end in a simpler way. Ican't say for certain, because it all depends- well, it all dependsupon a factor which is completely outside our control. But I havegreat hopes- in fact, the betting is exactly two to one- that if youwill come with us to-night I shall be able to help you to lay him bythe heels."

　　"In the Italian Quarter?"

　　"No, I fancy Chiswick is an address which is more likely to findhim. If you will come with me to Chiswick to-night, Lestrade, I'llpromise to go to the Italian Quarter with you to-morrow, and no harmwill be done by the delay. And now I think that a few hours' sleepwould do us all good, for I do not propose to leave before eleveno'clock, and it is unlikely that we shall be back before morning.You'll dine with us, Lestrade, and then you are welcome to the sofauntil it is time for us to start. In the meantime, Watson, I should beglad if you would ring for an express messenger, for I have a letterto send and it is important that it should go at once."Holmes spent the evening in rummaging among the files of the olddaily papers with which one of our lumber-rooms was packed. When atlast he descended, it was with triumph in his eyes, but he saidnothing to either of us as to the result of his researches. For my ownpart, I had followed step by step the methods by which he had tracedthe various windings of this complex case, and, though I could not yetperceive the goal which we would reach, I understood clearly thatHolmes expected this grotesque criminal to make an attempt upon thetwo remaining busts, one of which, I remembered, was at Chiswick. Nodoubt the object of our journey was to catch him in the very act,and I could not but admire the cunning with which my friend hadinserted a wrong clue in the evening paper, so as to give the fellowthe idea that he could continue his scheme with impunity. I was notsurprised when Holmes suggested that I should take my revolver withme. He had himself picked up the loaded hunting-crop, which was hisfavourite weapon.

　　A four-wheeler was at the door at eleven, and in it we drove to aspot at the other side of Hammersmith Bridge. Here the cabman wasdirected to wait. A short walk brought us to a secluded road fringedwith pleasant houses, each standing in its own grounds. In the lightof a street lamp we read "Laburnum Villa" upon the gate-post of one ofthem. The occupants had evidently retired to rest, for all was darksave for a fanlight over the hall door, which shed a single blurredcircle on to the garden path. The wooden fence which separated thegrounds from the road threw a dense black shadow upon the innerside, and here it was that we crouched.

　　"I fear that you'll have a long wait," Holmes whispered. "We maythank our stars that it is not raining. I don't think we can evenventure to smoke to pass the time. However, it's a two to one chancethat we get something to pay us for our trouble."

　　It proved, however, that our vigil was not to be so long as Holmeshad led us to fear, and it ended in a very sudden and singularfashion. In an instant, without the least sound to warn us of hiscoming, the garden gate swung open, and a lithe, dark figure, as swiftand active as an ape, rushed up the garden path. We saw it whiskpast the light thrown from over the door and disappear against theblack shadow of the house. There was a long pause, during which weheld our breath, and then a very gentle creaking sound came to ourears. The window was being opened. The noise ceased, and again therewas a long silence. The fellow was making his way into the house. Wesaw the sudden flash of a dark lantern inside the room. What he soughtwas evidently not there, for again we saw the flash through anotherblind, and then through another.

　　"Let us get to the open window. We will nab him as he climbs out,"Lestrade whispered.

　　But before we could move, the man had emerged again. As he cameout into the glimmering patch of light, we saw that he carriedsomething white under his arm. He looked stealthily all round him. Thesilence of the deserted street reassured him. Turning his back upon ushe laid down his burden, and the next instant there was the sound of asharp tap, followed by a clatter and rattle. The man was so intentupon what he was doing that he never heard our steps as we stoleacross the grass plot. With the bound of a tiger Holmes was on hisback, and an instant later Lestrade and I had him by either wrist, andthe handcuffs had been fastened. As we turned him over I saw ahideous, sallow face, with writhing, furious features, glaring up atus, and I knew that it was indeed the man of the photograph whom wehad secured.

　　But it was not our prisoner to whom Holmes was giving his attention.Squatted on the doorstep, he was engaged in most carefully examiningthat which the man had brought from the house. It was a bust ofNapoleon, like the one which we had seen that morning, and it had beenbroken into similar fragments. Carefully Holmes held each separateshard to the light, but in no way did it differ from any othershattered piece of plaster. He had just completed his examination whenthe hall lights flew up, the door opened, and the owner of thehouse, a jovial, rotund figure in shirt and trousers, presentedhimself.

　　"Mr. Josiah Brown, I suppose?" said Holmes.

　　"Yes, sir, and you, no doubt, are Mr. Sherlock Holmes? I had thenote which you sent by the express messenger, and I did exactly whatyou told me. We locked every door on the inside and awaiteddevelopments. Well, I'm very glad to see that you have got the rascal.I hope, gentlemen, that you will come in and have some refreshment."However, Lestrade was anxious to get his man into safe quarters,so within a few minutes our cab had been summoned and we were all fourupon our way to London. Not a word would our captive say, but heglared at us from the shadow of his matted hair, and once, when myhand seemed within his reach, he snapped at it like a hungry wolf.We stayed long enough at the police-station to learn that a searchof his clothing revealed nothing save a few shillings and a longsheath knife, the handle of which bore copious traces of recent blood."That's all right," said Lestrade, as we parted. "Hill knows allthese gentry, and he will give a name to him. You'll find that mytheory of the Mafia will work out all right. But I'm sure I amexceedingly obliged to you, Mr. Holmes, for the workmanlike way inwhich you laid hands upon him. I don't quite understand it all yet.""I fear it is rather too late an hour for explanations," saidHolmes. "Besides, there are one or two details which are notfinished off, and it is one of those cases which are worth working outto the very end. If you will come round once more to my rooms at sixo'clock to-morrow, I think I shall be able to show you that even nowyou have not grasped the entire meaning of this business, whichpresents some features which make it absolutely original in thehistory of crime. If ever I permit you to chronicle any more of mylittle problems, Watson, I foresee that you will enliven your pages byan account of the singular adventure of the Napoleonic busts."When we met again next evening, Lestrade was furnished with muchinformation concerning our prisoner. His name, it appeared, was Beppo,second name unknown. He was a well-known ne'er-do-well among theItalian colony. He had once been a skilful sculptor and had earnedan honest living, but he had taken to evil courses and had twicealready been in jail- once for a petty theft, and once, as we hadalready heard, for stabbing a fellow-countryman. He could talk Englishperfectly well. His reasons for destroying the busts were stillunknown, and he refused to answer any questions upon the subject,but the police had discovered that these same busts might very wellhave been made by his own hands, since he was engaged in this class ofwork at the establishment of Gelder & Co. To all this information,much of which we already knew, Holmes listened with politeattention, but I, who knew him so well, could clearly see that histhoughts were elsewhere, and I detected a mixture of mingleduneasiness and expectation beneath that mask which he was wont toassume. At last he started in his chair, and his eyes brightened.There had been a ring at the bell. A minute later we heard stepsupon the stairs, and an elderly red-faced man with grizzledside-whiskers was ushered in. In his right hand he carried anold-fashioned carpet-bag, which he placed upon the table."Is Mr. Sherlock Holmes here?"

　　My friend bowed and smiled. "Mr. Sandeford, of Reading, Isuppose?" said he.

　　"Yes, sir, I fear that I am a little late, but the trains wereawkward. You wrote to me about a bust that is in my possession.""Exactly."

　　"I have your letter here. You said, 'I desire to possess a copy ofDevine's Napoleon, and am prepared to pay you ten pounds for the onewhich is in your possession.' Is that right?"

　　"Certainly."

　　"I was very much surprised at your letter, for I could not imaginehow you knew that I owned such a thing."

　　"Of course you must have been surprised, but the explanation is verysimple. Mr. Harding, of Harding Brothers, said that they had soldyou their last copy, and he gave me your address."

　　"Oh, that was it, was it? Did he tell you what I paid for it?""No, he did not."

　　"Well, I am an honest man, though not a very rich one. I only gavefifteen shillings for the bust, and I think you ought to know thatbefore I take ten pounds from you.

　　"I am sure the scruple does you honour, Mr. Sandeford. But I havenamed that price, so I intend to stick to it."

　　"Well, it is very handsome of you, Mr. Holmes. I brought the bust upwith me, as you asked me to do. Here it is!" He opened his bag, and atlast we saw placed upon our table a complete specimen of that bustwhich we had already seen more than once in fragments.

　　Holmes took a paper from his pocket and laid a ten-pound note uponthe table.

　　"You will kindly sign that paper, Mr. Sandeford, in the presenceof these witnesses. It is simply to say that you transfer everypossible right that you ever had in the bust to me. I am amethodical man, you see, and you never know what turn events mighttake afterwards. Thank you, Mr. Sandeford; here is your money, and Iwish you a very good evening."

　　When our visitor had disappeared, Sherlock Holmes's movements weresuch as to rivet our attention. He began by taking a clean white clothfrom a drawer and laying it over the table. Then he placed his newlyacquired bust in the centre of the cloth. Finally, he picked up hishunting-crop and struck Napoleon a shard blow on the top of thehead. The figure broke into fragments, and Holmes bent eagerly overthe shattered remains. Next instant, with a loud shout of triumph heheld up one splinter, in which a round, dark object was fixed like aplum in a pudding.

　　"Gentlemen," he cried, "let me introduce you to the famous blackpearl of the Borgias."

　　Lestrade and I sat silent for a moment, and then, with a spontaneousimpulse, we both broke at the well-wrought crisis of a play. A flushof colour sprang to Holmes's pale cheeks, and he bowed to us likethe master dramatist who receives the homage of his audience. It wasat such moments that for an instant he ceased to be a reasoningmachine, and betrayed his human love for admiration and applause.The same singularly proud and reserved nature which turned away withdisdain from popular notoriety was capable of being moved to itsdepths by spontaneous wonder and praise from a friend.

　　"Yes, gentlemen," said he, "it is the most famous pearl now existingin the world, and it has been my good fortune, by a connected chain ofinductive reasoning, to trace it from the Prince of Colonna'sbedroom at the Dacre Hotel, where it was lost, to the interior ofthis, the last of the six busts of Napoleon which were manufactured byGelder & Co., of Stepney. You will remember, Lestrade, the sensationcaused by the disappearance of this valuable jewel and the vainefforts of the London police to recover it. I was myself consultedupon the case, but I was unable to throw any light upon it.Suspicion fell upon the maid of the Princess, who was an Italian,and it was proved that she had a brother in London, but we failed totrace any connection between them. The maid's name was LucretiaVenucci, and there is no doubt in my mind that this Pietro who wasmurdered two nights ago was the brother. I have been looking up thedates in the old files of the paper, and I find that the disappearanceof pearl was exactly two days before the arrest of Beppo, for somecrime of violence- an event which took place in the factory ofGelder & Co., at the very moment when these busts were being made. Nowyou clearly see the sequence of events, though you see them, ofcourse, in the inverse order to the way in which they presentedthemselves to me. Beppo had the pearl in his possession. He may havestolen it from Pietro, he may have been Pietro's confederate, he mayhave been the go-between of Pietro and his sister. It is of noconsequence to us which is the correct solution.

　　"The main fact is that he had the pearl, and at that moment, when itwas his person, he was pursued by the police. He made for thefactory in which worked, and he knew that he had only a few minutes inwhich to conceal this enormously valuable prize, which would otherwisebe found on him when he was searched. Six plaster casts of Napoleonwere drying in the passage. One of them was still soft. In aninstant Beppo, a skilful workman, made a small hole in the wetplaster, dropped in the pearl, and with a few touches covered over theaperture once more. It was an admirable hiding-place. No one couldpossibly find it. But Beppo was condemned to a year's imprisonment,and in the meanwhile his six busts were scattered over London. Hecould not tell which contained his treasure. Only by breaking themcould he see. Even shaking would tell him nothing, for as theplaster was wet it was probable that the pearl would adhere toit-as, in fact, it has done. Beppo did not despair, and he conductedhis search with considerable ingenuity and perseverance. Through acousin who works with Gelder, he found out the retail firms who hadbought the busts. He managed to find employment with Morse Hudson, andin that way tracked down three of them. The pearl was not there, Then,with the help of some Italian employee, he succeeded in finding outwhere the other three busts had gone. The first was at Harker's. Therehe was dogged by his confederate, who held Beppo responsible for theloss of the pearl, and he stabbed him in the scuffle which followed.""If he was his confederate, why should he carry his photograph?" Iasked.

　　"As a means of tracing him, if he wished to inquire about him fromany third person. That was the obvious reason. Well, after themurder I calculated that Beppo would probably hurry rather thandelay his movements. He would fear that the police would read hissecret, and so he hastened on before they should get ahead of him.Of course, I could not say that he had not found the pearl in Harker'sbust. I had not even concluded for certain that it was the pearl,but it was evident to me that he was looking for something, since hecarried the bust past the other houses in order to break it in thegarden which had a lamp overlooking it. Since Harker's bust was one inthree, the chances were exactly as I told you- two to one againstthe pearl being inside it. There remained two busts, and it wasobvious that he would go for the London one first. I warned theinmates of the house, so as to avoid a second tragedy, and we wentdown, with the happiest results. By that time, of course, I knew forcertain that it was the Borgia pearl that we were after. The name ofthe murdered man linked the one event with the other. There onlyremained a single bust- the Reading one- and the pearl must bethere. I bought it in your presence from the owner- and there itlies."

　　We sat in silence for a moment.

　　"Well," said Lestrade, "I've seen you handle a good many cases,Mr. Holmes, but I don't know that I ever knew a more workmanlike onethan that. We're not jealous of you at Scotland Yard. No, sir, weare very proud of you, and if you come down to-morrow, there's not aman, from the oldest inspector to the youngest constable, who wouldn'tbe glad to shake you by the hand."

　　"Thank you!" said Holmes. "Thank you!" and as he turned away, itseemed to me that he was more nearly moved by the softer humanemotions than I had ever seen him. A moment later he was the coldand practical thinker once more. "Put the pearl in the safe,Watson," said he, "and get out the papers of the Conk-Singletonforgery case. Good-bye, Lestrade. If any little problem comes yourway, I shall be happy, if I can, to give you a hint or two as to itssolution."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1903

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE SOLITARY CYCLIST

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　From the years 1894 to 1901 inclusive, Mr. Sherlock Holmes was avery busy man. It is safe to say that there was no public case ofany difficulty in which he was not consulted during those eight years,and there were hundreds of private cases, some of them of the mostintricate and extraordinary character, in which he played aprominent part. Many startling successes and a few unavoidablefailures were the outcome of this long period of continuous work. As Ihave preserved very full notes of all these cases, and was myselfpersonally engaged in many of them, it may be imagined that it is noeasy task to know which I should select to lay before the public. Ishall, however, preserve my former rule, and give the preference tothose cases which derive their interest not so much from the brutalityof the crime as from the ingenuity and dramatic quality of thesolution. For this reason I will now lay before the reader the factsconnected with Miss Violet Smith, the solitary cyclist of Charlington,and the curious sequel of our investigation, which culminated inunexpected tragedy. It is true that the circumstance did not admitof any striking illustration of those powers for which my friend wasfamous, but there were some points about the case which made itstand out in those long records of crime from which I gather thematerial for these little narratives.

　　On referring to my notebook for the year 1895, I find that it wasupon Saturday, the 23rd of April, that we first heard of Miss VioletSmith. Her visit was, I remember, extremely unwelcome to Holmes, forhe was immersed at the moment in a very abstruse and complicatedproblem concerning the peculiar persecution to which John VincentHarden, the well known tobacco millionaire, had been subjected. Myfriend, who loved above all things precision and concentration ofthought, resented anything which distracted his attention from thematter in hand. And yet, without a harshness which was foreign tohis nature, it was impossible to refuse to listen to the story ofthe young and beautiful woman, tall, graceful, and queenly, whopresented herself at Baker Street late in the evening, and imploredhis assistance and advice. It was vain to urge that his time wasalready fully occupied, for the young lady had come with thedetermination to tell her story, and it was evident that nothing shortof force could get her out of the room until she had done so. With aresigned air and a somewhat weary smile, Holmes begged the beautifulintruder to take a seat, and to inform us what it was that wastroubling her.

　　"At least it cannot be your health," said he, as his keen eyesdarted over her, "so ardent a bicyclist must be full of energy."She glanced down in surprise at her own feet, and I observed theslight roughening of the side of the sole caused by the friction ofthe edge of the pedal.

　　"Yes, I bicycle a good deal, Mr. Holmes, and that has something todo with my visit to you to-day."

　　My friend took the lady's ungloved hand, and examined it with asclose an attention and as little sentiment as a scientist would showto a specimen.

　　"You will excuse me, I am sure. It is my business," said he, as hedropped it. "I nearly fell into the error of supposing that you weretypewriting. Of course, it is obvious that it is music. You observethe spatulate finger-ends, Watson, which is common to bothprofessions? There is a spirituality about the face, however"- shegently turned it towards the light- "which the typewriter does notgenerate. This lady is a musician."

　　"Yes, Mr. Holmes, I teach music."

　　"In the country, I presume, from your complexion."

　　"Yes, sir, near Farnham, on the borders of Surrey."

　　"A beautiful neighbourhood, and full of the most interestingassociations. You remember, Watson, that it was near there that wetook Archie Stamford, the forger. Now, Miss Violet, what hashappened to you, near Farnham, on the borders of Surrey?"The young lady, with great clearness and composure, made thefollowing curious statement:

　　"My father is dead, Mr. Holmes. He was James Smith, who conductedthe orchestra at the old Imperial Theatre. My mother and I were leftwithout a relation in the world except one uncle, Ralph Smith, whowent to Africa twenty-five years ago, and we have never had a wordfrom him since. When father died, we were left very poor, but oneday we were told that there was an advertisement in the Times,inquiring for our whereabouts. You can imagine how excited we were,for we thought that someone had left us a fortune. We went at onceto the lawyer whose name was given in the paper. There we, met twogentlemen, Mr. Carruthers and Mr. Woodley, who were home on a visitfrom South Africa. They said that my uncle was a friend of theirs,that he had died some months before in great poverty inJohannesburg, and that he had asked them with his last breath tohunt up his relations, and see that they were in no want. It seemedstrange to us that Uncle Ralph, who took no notice of us when he wasalive, should be so careful to look after us when he was dead, but Mr.Carruthers explained that the reason was that my uncle had justheard of the death of his brother, and so felt responsible for ourfate."

　　"Excuse me," said Holmes. "When was this interview?"

　　"Last December- four months ago."

　　"Pray proceed."

　　"Mr. Woodley seemed to me to be a most odious person. He was forever making eyes at me- a coarse, puffy-faced, red-moustached youngman, with his hair plastered down on each side of his forehead. Ithought that he was perfectly hateful- and I was sure that Cyril wouldnot wish me to know such a person."

　　"Oh, Cyril is his name!" said Holmes, smiling.

　　The young lady blushed and laughed.

　　"Yes, Mr. Holmes, Cyril Morton, an electrical engineer, and wehope to be married at the end of the summer. Dear me, how did I gettalking about him? What I wished to say was that Mr. Woodley wasperfectly odious, but that Mr. Carruthers, who was a much older man,was more agreeable. He was a dark, sallow, clean-shaven, silentperson, but he had polite manners and a pleasant smile. He inquiredhow we were left, and on finding that we were very poor, hesuggested that I should come and teach music to his only daughter,aged ten. I said that I did not like to leave my mother, on which hesuggested that I should go home to her every week-end, and heoffered me a hundred a year, which was certainly splendid pay. So itended by my accepting, and I went down to Chiltern Grange, about sixmiles from Farnham. Mr. Carruthers was a widower, but he had engaged alady housekeeper, a very respectable, elderly person, called Mrs.Dixon, to look after his establishment. The child was a dear, andeverything promised well. Mr. Carruthers was very kind and verymusical, and we had most pleasant evenings together. Every week-endI went home to my mother in town.

　　"The first flaw in my happiness was the arrival of the

　　red-moustached Mr. Woodley. He came for a visit of a week, and oh!it seemed three months to me. He was a dreadful person- a bully toeveryone else, but to me something infinitely worse. He made odiouslove to me, boasted of his wealth, said that if I married him Icould have the finest diamonds in London, and finally, when I wouldhave nothing to do with him, he seized me in his arms one day afterdinner- he was hideously strong- and swore that he would not let me gountil I had kissed him. Mr. Carruthers came in and tore him from me,on which he turned upon his own host, knocking him down and cuttinghis face open. That was the end of his visit, as you can imagine.Mr. Carruthers apologized to me next day, and assured me that I shouldnever be exposed to such an insult again. I have not seen Mr.Woodley since.

　　"And now, Mr. Holmes, I come at last to the special thing whichhas caused me to ask your advice to-day. You must know that everySaturday forenoon I ride on my bicycle to Farnham Station, in order toget the 12:22 to town. The road from Chiltern Grange is a lonelyone, and at one spot it is particularly so, for it lies for over amile between Charlington Heath upon one side and the woods which lieround Charlington Hall upon the other. You could not find a morelonely tract of road anywhere, and it is quite rare to meet so much asa cart, or a peasant, until you reach the high road near CrooksburyHill. Two weeks ago I was passing this place, when I chanced to lookback over my shoulder, and about two hundred yards behind me I saw aman, also on a bicycle. He seemed to be a middle-aged man, with ashort, dark beard. I looked back before I reached Farnham, but the manwas gone, so I thought no more about it. But you can imagine howsurprised I was, Mr. Holmes, when, on my return on the Monday, I sawthe same man on the same stretch of road. My astonishment wasincreased when the incident occurred again, exactly as before, onthe following Saturday and Monday. He always kept his distance and didnot molest me in any way, but still it certainly was very odd. Imentioned it to Mr. Carruthers, who seemed interested in what Isaid, and told me that he had ordered a horse and trap, so that infuture I should not pass over these lonely roads without somecompanion.

　　"The horse and trap were to have come this week, but for some reasonthey were not delivered, and again I had to cycle to the station. Thatwas this morning. You can think that I looked out when I came toCharlington Heath, and there, sure enough, was the man, exactly ashe had been the two weeks before. He always kept so far from me that Icould not clearly see his face, but it was certainly someone whom Idid not know. He was dressed in a dark suit with a cloth cap. The onlything about his face that I could clearly see was his dark beard.To-day I was not alarmed, but I was filled with curiosity, and Idetermined to find out who he was and what he wanted. I slowed down mymachine, but he slowed down his. Then I stopped altogether, but hestopped also. Then I laid a trap for him. There is a sharp turningof the road, and I pedalled very quickly round this, and then Istopped and waited. I expected him to shoot round and pass me beforehe could stop. But he never appeared. Then I went back and lookedround the corner. I could see a mile of road, but he was not on it. Tomake it the more extraordinary, there was no side road at this pointdown which he could have gone."

　　Holmes chuckled and rubbed his hands. "This case certainlypresents some features of its own," said he. "How much time elapsedbetween your turning the corner and your discovery that the road wasclear?"

　　"Two or three minutes."

　　"Then he could not have retreated down the road, and you say thatthere are no side roads?"

　　"None."

　　"Then he certainly took a footpath on one side or the other.""It could not have been on the side of the heath, or I should haveseen him."

　　"So, by the process of exclusion, we arrive at the fact that he madehis way toward Charlington Hall, which, as I understand, is situatedin its own grounds on one side of the road. Anything else?""Nothing, Mr. Holmes, save that I was so perplexed that I felt Ishould not be happy until I had seen you and had your advice."Holmes sat in silence for some little time.

　　"Where is the gentleman to whom you are engaged?" he asked at last."He is in the Midland Electrical Company, at Coventry.""He would not pay you a surprise visit?"

　　"Oh, Mr. Holmes! As if I should not know him!"

　　"Have you had any other admirers?"

　　"Several before I knew Cyril."

　　"And since?"

　　"There was this dreadful man, Woodley, if you can call him anadmirer."

　　"No one else?"

　　Our fair client seemed a little confused.

　　"Who was he?" asked Holmes.

　　"Oh, it may be a mere fancy of mine; but it had seemed to mesometimes that my employer, Mr. Carruthers, takes a great deal ofinterest in me. We are thrown rather together. I play hisaccompaniments in the evening. He has never said anything. He is aperfect gentleman. But a girl always knows."

　　"Ha!" Holmes looked grave. "What does he do for a living?""He is a rich man."

　　"No carriages or horses?"

　　"Well, at least he is fairly well-to-do. But he goes into the citytwo or three times a week. He is deeply interested in South Africangold shares."

　　"You will let me know any fresh development, Miss Smith. I am verybusy just now, but I will find time to make some inquiries into yourcase. In the meantime, take no step without letting me know. Good-bye,and I trust that we shall have nothing but good news from you.""It is part of the settled order of Nature that such a girl shouldhave followers," said Holmes, he pulled at his meditative pipe, "butfor choice not on bicycles in lonely country roads. Some secretivelover, beyond all doubt. But there are curious and suggestivedetails about the case, Watson."

　　"That he should appear only at that point?"

　　"Exactly. Our first effort must be to find who are the tenants ofCharlington Hall. Then, again, how about the connection betweenCarruthers and Woodley, since they appear to be men of such adifferent type? How came they both to be so keen upon looking up RalphSmith's relations? One more point. What sort of a menage is it whichpays double the market price for a governess but does not keep ahorse, although six miles from the station? Odd, Watson- very odd!""You will go down?"

　　"No, my dear fellow, you will go down. This may be some triflingintrigue, and I cannot break my other important research for thesake of it. On Monday you will arrive early at Farnham; you willconceal yourself near Charlington Heath; you will observe thesefacts for yourself, and act as your own judgment advises. Then, havinginquired as to the occupants of the Hall, you will come back to me andreport. And now, Watson, not another word of the matter until wehave a few solid steppingstones on which we may hope to get acrossto our solution."

　　We had ascertained from the lady that she went down upon theMonday by the train which leaves Waterloo at 9:50, so I startedearly and caught the 9:13. At Farnham Station I had no difficulty inbeing directed to Charlington Heath. It was impossible to mistakescene of the young lady's adventure, for the road runs between theopen heath on one side and an old yew hedge upon the other,surrounding a park which is studded with magnificent trees. Therewas a main gateway of lichen-studded stone, each side pillarsurmounted by mouldering heraldic emblems, but besides this centralcarriage drive I observed several points where there were gaps inthe hedge and paths leading through them. The house was invisible fromthe road, but the surroundings all spoke of gloom and decay.The heath was covered with golden patches of flowering gorse,gleaming magnificently in the light of the bright spring sunshine.Behind of these clumps I took up my position, so as to command boththe gateway of the Hall and a long stretch of the road upon eitherside. It had been deserted when I left it, but now I saw a cyclistriding down it from the opposite direction to that in which I hadcome. He was clad in a dark suit, and I saw that he had a black beard.On reaching the end of the Charlington grounds, he sprang from hismachine and led it through a gap in the hedge, disappearing from myview.

　　A quarter of an hour passed, and then a second cyclist appeared.This time it was the young lady coming from the station. I saw herlook about her as she came to the Charlington hedge. An instantlater the man emerged from his hiding-place, sprang upon his cycle,and followed her. In all the broad landscape those were the onlymoving figures, the graceful girl sitting very straight upon hermachine, and the man behind her bending low over his handle-bar with acuriously furtive suggestion in every movement. She looked back at himand slowed her pace. He slowed also. She stopped. He at oncestopped, too, keeping two hundred yards behind her. Her nextmovement was as unexpected as it was spirited. She suddenly whiskedher wheels round and dashed straight at him. He was as quick as she,however, and darted off in desperate flight. Presently she came backup the road again, her head haughtily in the air, not deigning to takeany further notice of her silent attendant. He had turned also, andstill kept his distance until the curve of the road hid them from mysight.

　　I remained in my hiding-place, and it was well that I did so, forpresently the man reappeared, cycling slowly back. He turned in at theHall gates, and dismounted from his machine. For some minutes Icould see him standing among the trees. His hands were raised, andhe seemed to be settling his necktie. Then he mounted his cycle, androde away from me down the drive towards the Hall. I ran across theheath and peered through the trees. Far away I could catch glimpses ofthe old gray building with its bristling Tudor chimneys, but the driveran through a dense shrubbery, and I saw no more of my man.However, it seemed to me that I had done a fairly good morning'swork, and I walked back in high spirits to Farnham. The local houseagent could tell me nothing about Charlington Hall, and referred me toa well known firm in Pall Mall. There I halted on my way home, and metwith courtesy from the representative. No, I could not haveCharlington Hall for the summer. I was just too late. It had beenlet about a month ago. Mr. Williamson was the name of the tenant. Hewas a respectable, elderly gentleman. The polite agent was afraid hecould say no more, as the affairs of his clients were not matterswhich he could discuss.

　　Mr. Sherlock Holmes listened with attention to the long report whichI was able to present to him that evening, but it did not elicitthat word of curt praise which I had hoped for and should have valued.On the contrary, his austere face was even more severe than usual ashe commented upon the things that I had done and the things that I hadnot.

　　"Your hiding-place, my dear Watson, was very faulty. You should havebeen behind the hedge, then you would have had a close view of thisinteresting person. As it is, you were some hundreds of yards away andcan tell me even less than Miss Smith. She thinks she does not knowthe man; I am convinced she does. Why, otherwise, should he be sodesperately anxious that she should not get so near him as to seehis features? You describe him as bending over the handle-bar.Concealment again, you see. You really have done remarkably badly.He returns to the house, and you want to find out who he is. Youcome to a London house agent!"

　　"What should I have done?" I cried, with some heat.

　　"Gone to the nearest public-house. That is the centre of countrygossip. They would have told you every name, from the master to thescullery-maid. Williamson? It conveys nothing to my mind. If he isan elderly man he is not this active cyclist who sprints away fromthat young lady's athletic pursuit. What have we gained by yourexpedition? The knowledge that the girl's story is true. I neverdoubted it. That there is a connection between the cyclist and theHall. I never doubted that either. That the Hall is tenanted byWilliamson. Who's the better for that? Well, well, my dear sir,don't look so depressed. We can do little more until next Saturday,and in the meantime I may make one or two inquiries myself."Next morning, we had a note from Miss Smith, recounting shortlyand accurately the very incidents which I had seen, but the pith ofthe letter lay in the postscript:

　　I am sure that you will respect my confidence, Mr. Holmes, when Itell you that my place here has become difficult, owing to the factthat my employer has proposed marriage to me. I am convinced thathis feelings are most deep and most honourable. At the same time, mypromise is of course given. He took my refusal very seriously, butalso very gently. You can understand, however, that the situation is alittle strained.

　　"Our young friend seems to be getting into deep waters," said Holmes,thoughtfully, as he finished the letter. "The case certainlypresents more features of interest and more possibility of developmentthan I had originally thought. I should be none the worse for a quiet,peaceful day in the country, and I am inclined to run down thisafternoon and test one or two theories which I have formed."Holmes's quiet day in the country had a singular termination, for hearrived at Baker Street late in the evening, with a cut lip and adiscoloured lump upon his forehead, besides a general air ofdissipation which would have made his own person the fitting object ofa Scotland Yard investigation. He was immensely tickled by his ownadventures and laughed heartily as be recounted them.

　　"I get so little active exercise that it is always a treat" said he."You are aware that I have some proficiency in the good old Britishsport of boxing. Occasionally, it is of service, to-day, forexample, I should have come to very ignominious grief without it."I begged him to tell me what had occurred.

　　"I found that country pub which I had already recommended to yournotice, and there I made my discreet inquiries. I was in the bar,and a garrulous landlord was giving me all that I wanted. Williamsonis a white-bearded man, and he lives alone with a small staff ofservants at the Hall. There is some rumor that he is or has been aclergyman, but one or two incidents of his short residence at the Hallstruck me as peculiarly unecclesiastical. I have already made someinquiries at a clerical agency, and they tell me that there was aman of that name in orders, whose career has been a singularly darkone. The landlord further informed me that there are usually weekendvisitors- `a warm lot, sir'- at the Hall, and especially one gentlemanwith a red moustache, Mr. Woodley by name, who was always there. Wehad got as far as this, when who should walk in but the gentlemanhimself, who had been drinking his beer in the tap-room and hadheard the whole conversation. Who was I? What did I want? What did Imean by asking questions? He had a fine flow of language, and hisadjectives were very vigorous. He ended a string of abuse by a viciousbackhander, which I failed to entirely avoid. The next few minuteswere delicious. It was a straight left against a slogging ruffian. Iemerged as you see me. Mr. Woodley went home in a cart. So ended mycountry trip, and it must be confessed that, however enjoyable, my dayon the Surrey border has not been much more profitable than your own."The Thursday brought us another letter from our client.You will not be surprised, Mr. Holmes [said she] to hear that I amleaving Mr. Carruthers's employment. Even the high pay cannotreconcile me to the discomforts of my situation. On Saturday I come upto town, and I do not intend to return. Mr. Carruthers has got a trap,and so the dangers of the lonely road, if there ever were any dangers,are now over.

　　As to the special cause of my leaving, it is not merely the strainedsituation with Mr. Carruthers, but it is the reappearance of thatodious man, Mr. Woodley. He was always hideous, but he looks moreawful than ever now, for he appears to have had an accident and heis much disfigured. I saw him out of the window, but I am glad tosay I did not meet him. He had a long talk with Mr. Carruthers, whoseemed much excited afterwards. Woodley must be staying in theneighbourhood, for he did not sleep here, and yet I caught a glimpseof him again this morning, slinking about in the shrubbery. I wouldsooner have a savage wild animal loose about the place. I loathe andfear him more than I can say. How can Mr. Carruthers endure such acreature for a moment? However, all my troubles will be over onSaturday.

　　"So I trust, Watson, so I trust" said Holmes, gravely. "There issome deep intrigue going on round that little woman, and it is ourduty to see that no one molests her upon that last journey. I think,Watson, that we must spare time to run down together on Saturdaymorning and make sure that this curious and inclusive investigationhas no untoward ending."

　　I confess that I had not up to now taken a very serious view ofthe case, which had seemed to me rather grotesque and bizarre thandangerous. That a man should lie in wait for and follow a veryhandsome woman is no unheard-of thing, and if he has so littleaudacity that he not only dared not address her, but even fled fromher approach, he was not a very formidable assailant. The ruffianWoodley was a very different person, but, except on one occasion, hehad not molested our client, and now he visited the house ofCarruthers without intruding upon her presence. The man on the bicyclewas doubtless a member of those week-end parties at the Hall ofwhich the publican had spoken, but who he was, or what he wanted,was as obscure as ever. It was the severity of Holmes's manner and thefact that he slipped a revolver into his pocket before leaving ourrooms which impressed me with the feeling that tragedy might proveto lurk behind this curious train of events.

　　A rainy night had been followed by a glorious morning, and theheath-covered countryside, with the glowing clumps of flowering gorse,seemed all the more beautiful to eyes which were weary of the duns anddrabs and slate grays of London. Holmes and I walked along thebroad, sandy road inhaling the fresh morning air and rejoicing inthe music of the birds and the fresh breath of the spring. From a riseof the road on the shoulder of Crooksbury Hill, we could see thegrim Hall bristling out from amidst the ancient oaks, which, old asthey were, were still younger than the building which they surrounded.Holmes pointed down the long tract of road which wound, a reddishyellow band, between the brown of the heath and the budding green ofthe woods. Far away, a black dot, we could see a vehicle moving in ourdirection. Holmes gave an exclamation of impatience.

　　"I have given a margin of half an hour," said he. "If that is hertrap, she must be making for the earlier train. I fear, Watson, thatshe will be past Charlington before we can possibly meet her."From the instant that we passed the rise, we could no longer see thevehicle, but we hastened onward at such a pace that my sedentarylife began to tell upon me, and I was compelled to fall behind.Holmes, however, was always in training, for he had inexhaustiblestores of nervous energy upon which to draw. His springy step neverslowed until suddenly, when he was a hundred yards in front of me,he halted, and I saw him throw up his hand with a gesture of grief anddespair. At the same instant an empty dog-cart, the horse cantering,the reins trailing, appeared round the curve of the road and rattledswiftly towards us.

　　"Too late, Watson, too late!" cried Holmes, as I ran panting tohis side. "Fool that I was not to allow for that earlier train! It'sabduction, Watson- abduction! Murder! Heaven knows what! Block theroad! Stop the horse! That's right. Now, jump in, and let us see ifI can repair the consequences of my own blunder."

　　We had sprung into the dog-cart, and Holmes, after turning thehorse, gave it a sharp cut with the whip, and we flew back along theroad. As we turned the curve, the whole stretch of road between theHall and the heath was opened up. I grasped Holmes's arm."That's the man!" I gasped.

　　A solitary cyclist was coming towards us. His head was down and hisshoulders rounded, as he put every ounce of energy that he possessedon to the pedals. He was flying like a racer. Suddenly he raised hisbearded face, saw us close to him, and pulled up, springing from hismachine. That coal-black beard was in singular contrast to eyes wereas bright as if he had a fever. He stared at us and at the dog-cart.Then a look of amazement came over his face.

　　"Halloa! Stop there!" he shouted, holding his bicycle to block ourroad. "Where did you get that dog-cart? Pull up, man!" he yelled,drawing a pistol from his side "Pull up, I say, or, by George, I'llput a bullet into your horse."

　　Holmes threw the reins into my lap and sprang down from the cart."You're the man we want to see. Where is Miss Violet Smith?" hesaid, in his quick, clear way.

　　"That's what I'm asking you. You're in her dog-cart. You ought toknow where she is."

　　"We met the dog-cart on the road. There was no one in it. We droveback to help the young lady."

　　"Good Lord! Good Lord! What shall I do?" cried the stranger, in anecstasy of despair. "They've got her, that hell-hound Woodley andthe blackguard parson. Come, man, come, if you really are herfriend. Stand by me and we'll save her, if I have to leave mycarcass in Charlington Wood."

　　He ran distractedly, his pistol in his hand, towards a gap in thehedge. Holmes followed him, and I, leaving the horse grazing besidethe road, followed Holmes.

　　"This is where they came through," said he, pointing to the marks ofseveral feet upon the muddy path. "Halloa! Stop a minute! Who's thisin the bush?"

　　It was a young fellow about seventeen, dressed like an ostler,with leather cords and gaiters. He lay upon his back, his kneesdrawn up, a terrible cut upon his head. He was insensible, butalive. A glance at his wound told me that it had not penetrated thebone.

　　"That's Peter, the groom," cried the stranger. "He drove her. Thebeasts have pulled him off and clubbed him. Let him lie; we can't dohim any good, but we may save her from the worst fate that canbefall a woman."

　　We ran frantically down the path, which wound among the trees. Wehad reached the shrubbery which surrounded the house when Holmespulled up.

　　"They didn't go to the house. Here are their marks on the left-here, beside the laurel bushes. Ah! I said so."

　　As he spoke, a woman's shrill scream- a scream which vibrated with afrenzy of horror- burst from the thick, green clump of bushes in frontof us. It ended suddenly on its highest note with a choke and agurgle.

　　"This way! This way! They are in the bowling-alley," cried thestranger, darting through the bushes. "Ah, the cowardly dogs! Followme, gentlemen! Too late! too late! by the living Jingo!"We had broken suddenly into a lovely glade of greenswardsurrounded by ancient trees. On the farther side of it, under theshadow of a mighty oak, there stood a singular group of threepeople. One was a woman, our client, drooping and faint, ahandkerchief round her mouth. Opposite her stood a brutal,heavy-faced, redmoustached young man, his gaitered legs parted wide,one arm akimbo, the other waving a riding crop, his whole attitudesuggestive of triumphant bravado. Between them an elderly,gray-bearded man, wearing a short surplice over a light tweed suit,had evidently just completed the wedding service, for he pocketedhis prayer-book as we appeared, and slapped the sinister bridegroomupon the back in jovial congratulation.

　　"They're married?" I gasped.

　　"Come on!" cried our guide, "come on!" He rushed across the glade,Holmes and I at his heels. As we approached, the lady staggeredagainst the trunk of the tree for support. Williamson, theex-clergyman, bowed to us with mock politeness, and the bully,Woodley, advanced with a shout of brutal and exultant laughter."You can take your beard off, Bob," said he. "I know you, rightenough. Well, you and your pals have just come in time for me to beable to introduce you to Mrs. Woodley."

　　Our guide's answer was a singular one. He snatched off the darkbeard which had disguised him and threw it on the ground, disclosing along, sallow, clean-shaven face below it. Then he raised hisrevolver and covered the young ruffian, who was advancing upon himwith his dangerous riding crop swinging in his hand.

　　"Yes," said our ally, "I am Bob Carruthers, and I'll see thiswoman righted, if I have to swing for it. I told you what I'd do ifyou molested her, and, by the Lord! I'll be as good as my word.""You're too late. She's my wife."

　　"No, she's your widow."

　　His revolver cracked, and I saw the blood spurt from the front ofWoodley's waistcoat. He spun round with a scream and fell upon hisback, his hideous red face turning suddenly to a dreadful mottledpallor. The old man, still clad in his surplice, burst into such astring of foul oaths as I have never heard, and pulled out arevolver of his own, but, before he could raise it, he was lookingdown the barrel of Holmes's weapon.

　　"Enough of this," said my friend, coldly. "Drop that pistol! Watson,pick it up! Hold it to his head. Thank you. You, Carruthers, give methat revolver. We'll have no more violence. Come, hand it over!""Who are you, then?"

　　"My name is Sherlock Holmes."

　　"Good Lord!"

　　"You have heard of me, I see. I will represent the official policeuntil their arrival. Here, you!" he shouted to a frightened groom, whohad appeared at the edge of the glade. "Come here. Take this note ashard as you can ride to Farnham." He scribbled a few words upon a leaffrom his notebook. "Give it to the superintendent at thepolice-station. Until he comes, I must detain you all under mypersonal custody."

　　The strong, masterful personality of Holmes dominated the tragicscene, and all were equally puppets in his hands. Williamson andCarruthers found themselves carrying the wounded Woodley into thehouse, and I gave my arm to the frightened girl. The injured man waslaid on his bed, and at Holmes's request I examined him. I carriedmy report to where he sat in the old tapestry-hung dining-room withhis two prisoners before him.

　　"He will live," said I.

　　"What!" cried Carruthers, springing out of his chair. "I'll goupstairs and finish him first. Do you tell me that that angel, is tobe tied to Roaring Jack Woodley for life?"

　　"You need not concern yourself about that," said Holmes. "Thereare two very good reasons why she should, under no circumstances, behis wife. In the first place, we are very safe in questioning Mr.Williamson's right to solemnize a marriage."

　　"I have been ordained," cried the old rascal.

　　"And also unfrocked."

　　"Once a clergyman, always a clergyman."

　　"I think not. How about the license?"

　　"We had a license for the marriage. I have it here in my pocket.""Then you got it by trick. But, in any case a forced marriage isno marriage, but it is a very serious felony, as you will discoverbefore you have finished. You'll have time to think the point outduring the next ten years or so, unless I am mistaken. As to you,Carruthers, you would have done better to keep your pistol in yourpocket."

　　"I begin to think so, Mr. Holmes, but when I thought of all theprecaution I had taken to shield this girl- for I loved her, Mr.Holmes, and it is the only time that ever I knew what love was- itfairly drove me mad to think that she was in the power of the greatestbrute and bully in South Africa- a man whose name is a holy terrorfrom Kimberley to Johannesburg. Why, Mr. Holmes, you'll hardly believeit, but ever since that girl has been in my employment I never oncelet her go past this house, where I knew rascals were lurking, withoutfollowing her on my bicycle, to see that she came to no harm. I keptmy distance from her, and I wore a beard, so that she should notrecognize me, for she is a good and high-spirited girl, and shewouldn't have stayed in my employment long if she had thought that Iwas following her about the country roads."

　　"Why didn't you tell her of her danger?"

　　"Because then, again, she would have left me, and I couldn't bear toface that. Even if she couldn't love me, it was a great deal to mejust to see her dainty form about the house, and to hear the soundof her voice."

　　"Well," said I, "you call that love, Mr. Carruthers, but I shouldcall it selfishness."

　　"Maybe the two things go together. Anyhow, I couldn't let her go.Besides, with this crowd about, it was well that she should havesomeone near to look after her. Then, when the cable came, I knew theywere bound to make a move."

　　"What cable?"

　　Carruthers took a telegram from his pocket "That's it," said he.It was short and concise:

　　THE OLD MAN IS DEAD.

　　"Hum!" said Holmes. "I think I see how things worked, and I canunderstand how this message would, as you say, bring them to a head.But while you wait, you might tell me what you can.

　　The old reprobate with the surplice burst into a volley of badlanguage.

　　"By heaven!" said he, "if you squeal on us, Bob Carruthers, I'llserve you as you served Jack Woodley. You can bleat about the girlto your heart's content, for that's your own affair, but if youround on your pals to this plain-clothes copper, it will be theworst day's work that ever you did."

　　"Your reverence need not be excited," said Holmes, lighting acigarette. "The case is clear enough against you, and all I ask is afew details for my private curiosity. However, if there's anydifficulty in your telling me, I'll do the talking, and then youwill see how far you have a chance of holding back your secrets. Inthe first place, three of you came from South Africa on this game- youWilliamson, you Carruthers, and Woodley."

　　"Lie number one," said the old man; "I never saw either of themuntil two months ago, and I have never been in Africa in my life, soyou can put that in your pipe and smoke it, Mr. Busybody Holmes!""What he says is true," said Carruthers.

　　"Well, well, two of you came over. His reverence is our own homemadearticle. You had known Ralph Smith in South Africa. You had reasonto believe he would not live long. You found out that his niecewould inherit his fortune. How's that- eh?"

　　Carruthers nodded and Williamson swore.

　　"She was next of kin, no doubt, and you were aware that the oldfellow would make no will."

　　"Couldn't read or write," said Carruthers.

　　"So you came over, the two of you, and hunted up the girl. Theidea was that one of you was to marry her, and the other have ashare of the plunder. For some reason, Woodley was chosen as thehusband. Why was that?"

　　"We played cards for her on the voyage. He won."

　　"I see. You got the young lady into your service, and thereWoodley was to do the courting. She recognized the drunken brutethat he was, and would have nothing to do with him. Meanwhile, yourarrangement was rather upset by the fact that you had yourselffallen in love with the lady. You could no longer bear the idea ofthis ruffian owning her?"

　　"No, by George, I couldn't!"

　　"There was a quarrel between you. He left you in a rage, and beganto make his own plans independently of you."

　　"It strikes me, Williamson, there isn't very much that we can tellthis gentleman," cried Carruthers, with a bitter laugh. "Yes, wequarreled, and he knocked me down. I am level with him on that,anyhow. Then I lost sight of him. That was when he picked up with thisoutcast padre here. I found that they had set up housekeeping togetherat this place on the line that she had to pass for the station. I keptmy eye on her after that, for I knew there was some devilry in thewind. I saw them from time to time, for I was anxious to know whatthey were after. Two days ago Woodley came up to my house with thiscable, which showed that Ralph Smith was dead. He asked me if Iwould stand by the bargain. I said I would not. He asked me if I wouldmarry the girl myself and give him a share. I said I would willinglydo so, but that she would not have me. He said, `Let us get hermarried first and after a week or two she may see things a bitdifferent.' I said I would have nothing to do with violence. So hewent off cursing, like the foul-mouthed blackguard that he was, andswearing that he would have her yet. She was leaving me this week-end,and I had got a trap to take her to the station, but I was so uneasyin my mind that I followed her on my bicycle. She had got a start,however, and before I could catch her, the mischief was done. Thefirst thing I knew about it was when I saw you two gentlemen drivingback in her dog-cart"

　　Holmes rose and tossed the end of his cigarette into the grate. "Ihave been very obtuse, Watson," said he. "When in your report you saidthat you had seen the cyclist as you thought arrange his necktie inthe shrubbery, that alone should have told me all. However, we maycongratulate ourselves upon a curious and, in some respects, aunique case. I perceive three of the county constabulary in the drive,and I am glad to see that the little ostler is able to keep pacewith them, so it is likely that neither he nor the interestingbridegroom will be permanently damaged by their morning'sadventures. I think, Watson, that in your medical capacity, youmight wait upon Miss Smith and tell her that if she is sufficientlyrecovered, we shall be happy to escort her to her mother's home. Ifshe is not quite convalescent you will find that a hint that we wereabout to telegraph to a young electrician in the Midlands wouldprobably complete the cure. As to you, Mr. Carruthers, I think thatyou have done what you could to make amends for your share in anevil plot. There is my card, sir, and if my evidence can be of help inyour trial, it shall be at your disposal."

　　In the whirl of our incessant activity, it has often beendifficult for me, as the reader has probably observed, to round off mynarratives, and to give those final details which the curious mightexpect. Each case has been the prelude to another, and the crisis onceover, the actors have passed for ever out of our busy lives. I find,however, a short note at the end of my manuscript dealing with thiscase, in which I have put it upon record that Miss Violet Smith didindeed inherit a large fortune, and that she is now the wife ofCyril Morton, the senior partner of Morton & Kennedy, the famousWestminster electricians. Williamson and Woodley were both tried forabduction and assault, the former getting seven years the latterten. Of the fate of Carruthers, I have no record, but I am sure thathis assault was not viewed very gravely by the court, since Woodleyhad the reputation of being a most dangerous ruffian, and I think thata few, months were sufficient to satisfy the demands of justice.-THE END-

　　.

　　1892

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE SPECKLED BAND

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　On glancing over my notes of the seventy odd cases in which I haveduring the last eight years studied the methods of my friendSherlock Holmes, I find many tragic, some comic, a large number merelystrange, but none commonplace; for, working as he did rather for thelove of his art than for the acquirement of wealth, he refused toassociate himself with any investigation which did not tend towardsthe unusual, and even the fantastic. Of all these varied cases,however, I cannot recall any which presented more singular featuresthan that which was associated with the well-known Surrey family ofthe Roylotts of Stoke Moran. The events in question occurred in theearly days of my association with Holmes, when we were sharing roomsas bachelors in Baker Street. It is possible that I might haveplaced them upon record before, but a promise of secrecy was made atthe time, from which I have only been freed during the last month bythe untimely death of the lady to whom the pledge was given. It isperhaps as well that the facts should now come to light, for I havereasons to know that there are widespread rumours as to the death ofDr. Grimesby Roylott which tend to make the matter even moreterrible than the truth.

　　It was early in April in the year '83 that I woke one morning tofind Sherlock Holmes standing, fully dressed, by the side of my bed.He was a late riser, as a rule, and as the clock on the mantelpieceshowed me that it was only a quarter-past seven, I blinked up at himin some surprise, and perhaps just a little resentment, for I wasmyself regular in my habits.

　　"Very sorry to knock you up, Watson," said he, "but it's thecommon lot this morning. Mrs. Hudson has been knocked up, she retortedupon me, and I on you."

　　"What is it, then-a fire?"

　　"No; a client. It seems that a young lady has arrived in aconsiderable state of excitement, who insists upon seeing me. She iswaiting now in the sitting-room. Now, when young ladies wander aboutthe metropolis at this hour of the morning, and knock sleepy people upout of their beds, I presume that it is something very pressingwhich they have to communicate. Should it prove to be an interestingcase, you would, I am sure, wish to follow it from the outset. Ithought, at any rate, that I should call you and give you the chance.""My dear fellow, I would not miss it for anything."

　　I had no keener pleasure than in following Holmes in hisprofessional investigations, and in admiring the rapid deductions,as swift as intuitions, and yet always founded on a logical basis,with which he unravelled the problems which were submitted to him. Irapidly threw on my clothes and was ready in a few minutes toaccompany my friend down to the sitting-room. A lady dressed inblack and heavily veiled, who had been sitting in the window, roseas we entered.

　　"Good-morning, madam," said Holmes cheerily. "My name is SherlockHolmes. This is my intimate friend and associate, Dr. Watson, beforewhom you can speak as freely as before myself. Ha! I am glad to seethat Mrs. Hudson has had the good sense to light the fire. Pray drawup to it, and I shall order you a cup of hot coffee, for I observethat you are shivering."

　　"It is not cold which makes me shiver," said the woman in a lowvoice, changing her seat as requested.

　　"What, then?"

　　"It is fear, Mr. Holmes. It is terror." She raised her veil as shespoke, and we could see that she was indeed in a pitiable state ofagitation, her face all drawn and gray, with restless, frightenedeyes, like those of some hunted animal. Her features and figure werethose of a woman of thirty, but her hair was shot with premature gray,and her expression was weary and haggard. Sherlock Holmes ran her overwith one of his quick, all-comprehensive glances.

　　"You must not fear," said he soothingly, bending forward and pattingher forearm. "We shall soon set matters right, I have no doubt. Youhave come in by train this morning, I see."

　　"You know me, then?"

　　"No, but I observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm ofyour left glove. You must have started early, and yet you had a gooddrive in a dog-cart, along heavy roads, before you reached thestation."

　　The lady gave a violent start and stared in bewilderment at mycompanion.

　　"There is no mystery, my dear madam," said he, smiling. "The leftarm of your jacket is spattered with mud in no less than seven places.The marks are perfectly fresh. There is no vehicle save a dog-cartwhich throws up mud in that way, and then only when you sit on theleft-hand side of the driver."

　　"Whatever your reasons may be, you are perfectly correct," said she."I started from home before six reached Leatherhead at twenty past,and came in by the first train to Waterloo. Sir, I can stand thisstrain no longer; I shall go mad if it continues. I have no one toturn to-none, save only one, who cares for me, and he, poor fellow,can be of little aid. I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes; I have heard ofyou from Mrs. Farintosh, whom you helped in the hour of her sore need.It was from her that I had your address. Oh, sir, do you not thinkthat you could help me, too, and at least throw a little light throughthe dense darkness which surrounds me? At present it is out of mypower to reward you for your services, but in a month or six weeks Ishall be married, with the control of my own income, and then at leastyou shall not find me ungrateful."

　　Holmes turned to his desk and, unlocking it, drew out a smallcase-book, which he consulted.

　　"Farintosh," said he. "Ah yes, I recall the case, it was concernedwith an opal tiara. I think it was before your time, Watson. I canonly say, madam, that I shall be happy to devote the same care to yourcase as I did to that of your friend. As to reward, my profession isits own reward; but you are at liberty to defray whatever expenses Imay be put to, at the time which suits you best. And now I beg thatyou will lay before us everything that may help us in forming anopinion upon the matter."

　　"Alas!" replied our visitor, "the very horror of my situation liesin the fact that my fears are so vague, and my suspicions depend soentirely upon small points, which might seem trivial to another,that even he to whom of all others I have a right to look for help andadvice looks upon all that I tell him about it as the fancies of anervous woman. He does not say so, but I can read it from his soothinganswers and averted eyes. But I have heard, Mr. Holmes, that you cansee deeply into the manifold wickedness of the human heart. You mayadvise me how to walk amid the dangers which encompass me.""I am all attention, madam."

　　"My name is Helen Stoner, and I am living with my stepfather, who isthe last survivor of one of the oldest Saxon families in England,the Roylotts of Stoke Moran, on the western border of Surrey."Holmes nodded his head. "The name is familiar to me," said he."The family was at one time among the richest in England, and theestates extended over the borders into Berkshire in the north, andHampshire in the west. In the last century, however, four successiveheirs were of a dissolute and wasteful disposition, and the familyruin was eventually completed by a gambler in the days of the Regency.Nothing was left save a few acres of ground, and the

　　two-hundred-year-old house, which is itself crushed under a heavymortgage. The last squire dragged out his existence there, livingthe horrible life of an aristocratic pauper, but his only son, mystepfather, seeing that he must adapt himself to the new conditions,obtained an advance from a relative, which enabled him to take amedical degree and went out to Calcutta, where, by his professionalskill and his force of character, he established a large practice.In a fit of anger, however, caused by some robberies which had beenperpetrated in the house, he beat his native butler to death andnarrowly escaped a capital sentence. As it was, he suffered a longterm of imprisonment and afterwards returned to England a morose anddisappointed man.

　　"When Dr. Roylott was in India he married my mother, Mrs. Stoner,the young widow of Major General Stoner, of the Bengal Artillery. Mysister Julia and I were twins, and we were only two years old at thetime of my mother's re-marriage. She had a considerable sum ofmoney-not less than L1000 a year-and this she bequeathed to Dr.Roylott entirely while we resided with him, with a provision that acertain annual sum should be allowed to each of us in the event of ourmarriage. Shortly after our return to England my mother died-she waskilled eight years ago in a railway accident near Crewe. Dr. Roylottthen abandoned his attempts to establish himself in practice in Londonand took us to live with him in the old ancestral house at StokeMoran. The money which my mother had left was enough for all ourwants, and there seemed to be no obstacle to our happiness."But a terrible change came over our stepfather about this time.Instead of making friends and exchanging visits with our neighbours,who had at first been overjoyed to see a Roylott of Stoke Moran backin the old family seat, he shut himself up in his house and seldomcame out save to indulge in ferocious quarrels with whoever mightcross his path. Violence of temper approaching to mania has beenhereditary in the men of the family, and in my stepfather's case ithad, I believe, been intensified by his long residence in the tropics.A series of disgraceful brawls took place, two of which ended in thepolice-court, until at last he became the terror of the village, andthe folks would fly at his approach, for he is a man of immensestrength, and absolutely uncontrollable in his anger.

　　"Last week he hurled the local blacksmith over a parapet into astream, and it was only by paying over all the money which I couldgather together that I was able to avert another public exposure. Hehad no friends at all save the wandering gypsies, and he would givethese vagabonds leave to encamp upon the few acres of

　　bramble-covered land which represent the family estate, and wouldaccept in return the hospitality of their tents, wandering away withthem sometimes for weeks on end. He has a passion also for Indiananimals, which are sent over to him by a correspondent, and he hasat this moment a cheetah and a baboon, which wander freely over hisgrounds and are feared by the villagers almost as much as theirmaster.

　　"You can imagine from what I say that my poor sister Julia and I hadno great pleasure in our lives. No servant would stay with us, and fora long time we did all the work of the house. She was but thirty atthe time of her death, and yet her hair had already begun to whiten,even as mine has."

　　"Your sister is dead, then?"

　　"She died just two years ago, and it is of her death that I wishto speak to you. You can understand that, living the life which I havedescribed, we were little likely to see anyone of our own age andposition. We had, however, an aunt, my mother's maiden sister, MissHonoria Westphail, who lives near Harrow, and we were occasionallyallowed to pay short visits at this lady's house. Julia went thereat Christmas two years ago, and met there a half-pay major of marines,to whom she became engaged. My stepfather learned of the engagementwhen my sister returned and offered no objection to the marriage;but within a fortnight of the day which had been fixed for thewedding, the terrible event occurred which has deprived me of myonly companion."

　　Sherlock Holmes had been leaning back in his chair with his eyesclosed and his head sunk in a cushion, but he half opened his lids nowand glanced across at his visitor.

　　"Pray be precise as to details," said he.

　　"It is easy for me to be so, for every event of that dreadful timeis seared into my memory. The manor-house is, as I have alreadysaid, very old, and only one wing is now inhabited. The bedrooms inthis wing are on the ground floor, the sitting-rooms being in thecentral block of the buildings. Of these bedrooms the first is Dr.Roylott's, the second my sister's, and the third my own. There is nocommunication between them, but they all open out into the samecorridor. Do I make myself plain?"

　　"Perfectly so."

　　"The windows of the three rooms open out upon the lawn. That fatalnight Dr. Roylott had gone to his room early, though we knew that hehad not retired to rest, for my sister was troubled by the smell ofthe strong Indian cigars which it was his custom to smoke. She lefther room, therefore, and came into mine, where she sat for sometime, chatting about her approaching wedding. At eleven o'clock sherose to leave me, but she paused at the door and looked back."'Tell me, Helen,' said she, 'have you ever heard anyone whistlein the dead of the night?'

　　"'Never,' said I.

　　"'I suppose that you could not possibly whistle, yourself, in yoursleep?'

　　"'Certainly not. But why?'

　　"'Because during the last few nights I have always, about three inthe morning, heard a low, clear whistle. I am a light sleeper, andit has awakened me. I cannot tell where it came from-perhaps fromthe next room, perhaps from the lawn. I thought that I would justask you whether you had heard it.'

　　"'No, I have not. It must be those wretched gypsies in theplantation.'

　　"'Very likely. And yet if it were on the lawn, I wonder that you didnot hear it also.'

　　"'Ah, but I sleep more heavily than you.'

　　"'Well, it is of no great consequence, at any rate.' She smiled backat me, closed my door, and a few moments later I heard her key turn inthe lock."

　　"Indeed," said Holmes. "Was it your custom always to lock yourselvesin at night?"

　　"Always."

　　"And why?"

　　"I think that I mentioned to you that the doctor kept a cheetahand a baboon. We had no feeling of security unless our doors werelocked."

　　"Quite so. Pray proceed with your statement."

　　"I could not sleep that night. A vague feeling of impendingmisfortune impressed me. My sister and I, you will recollect, weretwins, and you know how subtle are the links which bind two soulswhich are so closely allied. It was a wild night. The wind was howlingoutside, and the rain was beating and splashing against the windows.Suddenly, amid all the hubbub of the gale, there burst forth thewild scream of a terrified woman. I knew that it was my sister'svoice. I sprang from my bed, wrapped a shawl round me, and rushed intothe corridor. As I opened my door I seemed to hear a low whistle, suchas my sister described, and a few moments later a clanging sound, asif a mass of metal had fallen. As I ran down the passage, mysister's door was unlocked, and revolved slowly upon its hinges. Istared at it horror-stricken, not knowing what was about to issue fromit. By the light of the corridor-lamp I saw my sister appear at theopening, her face blanched with terror, her hands groping for help,her whole figure swaying to and fro like that of a drunkard. I ranto her and threw my arms round her, but at that moment her kneesseemed to give way and she fell to the ground. She writhed as onewho is in terrible pain, and her limbs were dreadfully convulsed. Atfirst I thought that she had not recognized me, but as I bent over hershe suddenly shrieked out in a voice which I shall never forget,'Oh, my God! Helen! It was the band! The speckled band!' There wassomething else which she would fain have said, and she stabbed withher finger into the air in the direction of the doctors room, but afresh convulsion seized her and choked her words. I rushed out,calling loudly for my stepfather, and I met him hastening from hisroom in his dressing-gown. When he reached my sisters side she wasunconscious, and though he poured brandy down her throat and sentfor medical aid from the village, all efforts were in vain, for sheslowly sank and died without having recovered her consciousness.Such was the dreadful end of my beloved sister."

　　"One moment," said Holmes; "are you sure about this whistle andmetallic sound? Could you swear to it?"

　　"That was what the county coroner asked me at the inquiry. It ismy strong impression that I heard it, and yet, among the crash ofthe gale and the creaking of an old house, I may possibly have beendeceived."

　　"Was your sister dressed?"

　　"No, she was in her night-dress. In her right hand was found thecharred stump of a match, and in her left a match-box.""Showing that she had struck a light and looked about her when thealarm took place. That is important. And what conclusions did thecoroner come to?"

　　"He investigated the case with great care, for Dr. Roylott's conducthad long been notorious in the county, but he was unable to find anysatisfactory cause of death. My evidence showed that the door had beenfastened upon the inner side, and the windows were blocked byold-fashioned shutters with broad iron bars, which were securedevery night. The walls were carefully sounded, and were shown to bequite solid all round, and the flooring was also thoroughlyexamined, with the same result. The chimney is wide, but is barredup by four large staples. It is certain, therefore, that my sister wasquite alone when she met her end. Besides, there were no marks ofany violence upon her."

　　"How about poison?"

　　"The doctors examined her for it, but without success.""What do you think that this unfortunate lady died of, then?""It is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock,though what it was that frightened her I cannot imagine.""Were there gypsies in the plantation at the time?"

　　"Yes, there are nearly always some there."

　　"Ah, and what did you gather from this allusion to a band-a speckledband?"

　　"Sometimes I have thought that it was merely the wild talk ofdelirium, sometimes that it may have referred to some band ofpeople, perhaps to these very gypsies in the plantation. I do not knowwhether the spotted handkerchiefs which so many of them wear overtheir heads might have suggested the strange adjective which sheused."

　　Holmes shook his head like a man who is far from being satisfied."These are very deep waters," said he; "pray go on with yournarrative."

　　"Two years have passed since then, and my life has been until latelylonelier than ever. A month ago, however, a dear friend, whom I haveknown for many years, has done me the honour to ask my hand inmarriage. His name is Armitage-Percy Armitage-the second son of Mr.Armitage, of Crane Water, near Reading. My stepfather has offered noopposition to the match, and we are to be married in the course of thespring. Two days ago some repairs were started in the west wing of thebuilding, and my bedroom wall has been pierced, so that I have hadto move into the chamber in which my sister died, and to sleep inthe very bed in which she slept. Imagine, then, my thrill of terrorwhen last night, as I lay awake, thinking over her terrible fate, Isuddenly heard in the silence of the night the low whistle which hadbeen the herald of her own death. I sprang up and lit the lamp, butnothing was to be seen in the room. I was too shaken to go to bedagain, however, so I dressed, and as soon as it was daylight I slippeddown, got a dog-cart at the Crown Inn, which is opposite, and drove toLeatherhead, from whence I have come on this morning with the oneobject of seeing you and asking your advice."

　　"You have done wisely," said my friend. "But have you told me all?""Yes, all."

　　"Miss Roylott, you have not. You are screening your stepfather.""Why, what do you mean?"

　　For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of black lace whichfringed the hand that lay upon our visitor's knee. Five little lividspots, the marks of four fingers and a thumb, were printed upon thewhite wrist.

　　"You have been cruelly used," said Holmes.

　　The lady coloured deeply and covered over her injured wrist. "Heis a hard man," she said, "and perhaps he hardly knows his ownstrength."

　　There was a long silence, during which Holmes leaned his chin uponhis hands and stared into the crackling fire.

　　"This is a very deep business," he said at last. "There are athousand details which I should desire to know before I decide uponour course of action. Yet we have not a moment to lose. If we wereto come to Stoke Moran to-day, would it be possible for us to see overthese rooms without the knowledge of your stepfather?"

　　"As it happens, he spoke of coming into town to-day upon some mostimportant business. It is probable that he will be away all day, andthat there would be nothing to disturb you. We have a housekeeper now,but she is old and foolish, and I could easily get her out of theway."

　　"Excellent. You are not averse to this trip, Watson?"

　　"By no means."

　　"Then we shall both come. What are you going to do yourself?""I have one or two things which I would wish to do now that I amin town. But I shall return by the twelve o'clock train, so as to bethere in time for your coming."

　　"And you may expect us early in the afternoon. I have myself somesmall business matters to attend to. Will you not wait and breakfast?""No, I must go. My heart is lightened already since I haveconfided my trouble to you. I shall look forward to seeing you againthis afternoon." She dropped her thick black veil over her face andglided from the room.

　　"And what do you think of it all, Watson?" asked Sherlock Holmes,leaning back in his chair.

　　"It seems to me to be a most dark and sinister business.""Dark enough and sinister enough."

　　"Yet if the lady is correct in saying that the flooring and wallsare sound, and that the door, window, and chimney are impassable, thenher sister must have been undoubtedly alone when she met hermysterious end."

　　"What becomes, then, of these nocturnal whistles, and what of thevery peculiar words of the dying woman?"

　　"I cannot think."

　　"When you combine the ideas of whistles at night, the presence ofa band of gypsies who are on intimate terms with this old doctor,the fact that we have every reason to believe that the doctor has aninterest in preventing his stepdaughter's marriage, the dying allusionto a band, and, finally, the fact that Miss Helen Stoner heard ametallic clang, which might have been caused by one of those metalbars that secured the shutters falling back into its place, I thinkthat there is good ground to think that the mystery may be clearedalong those lines."

　　"But what, then, did the gypsies do?"

　　"I cannot imagine."

　　"I see many objections to any such theory."

　　"And so do I. It is precisely for that reason that we are going toStoke Moran this day. I want to see whether the objections arefatal, or if they may be explained away. But what in the name of thedevil!"

　　The ejaculation had been drawn from my companion by the fact thatour door had been suddenly dashed open, and that a huge man had framedhimself in the aperture. His costume was a peculiar mixture of theprofessional and of the agricultural, having a black top-hat, a longfrock-coat, and a pair of high gaiters, with a hunting-crop swingingin his hand. So tall was he that his hat actually brushed the crossbar of the doorway, and his breadth seemed to span it across from sideto side. A large face, seared with a thousand wrinkles, burnedyellow with the sun, and marked with every evil passion, was turnedfrom one to the other of us, while his deep-set, bile-shot eyes, andhis high, thin, fleshless nose, gave him somewhat the resemblance to afierce old bird of prey.

　　"Which of you is Holmes?" asked this apparition.

　　"My name, sir; but you have the advantage of me," said mycompanion quietly.

　　"I am Dr. Grimesby Roylott, of Stokes Moran."

　　"Indeed, Doctor," said Holmes blandly. "Pray take a seat.""I will do nothing of the kind. My stepdaughter has been here. Ihave traced her. What has she been saying to you?"

　　"It is a little cold for the time of the year," said Holmes."What has she been saying to you?" screamed the old man furiously."But I have heard that the crocuses promise well," continued mycompanion imperturbably.

　　"Ha! You put me off, do you?" said our new visitor, taking a stepforward and shaking his hunting-crop. "I know you, you scoundrel! Ihave heard of you before. You are Holmes, the meddler."My friend smiled.

　　"Holmes, the busybody?"

　　His smile broadened.

　　"Holmes, the Scotland Yard Jack-in-office!"

　　Holmes chuckled heartily. "Your conversation is most

　　entertaining," said he. "When you go out close the door, for thereis a decided draught."

　　"I will go when I have said my say. Don't you dare to meddle with myaffairs. I know that Miss Stoner has been here. I traced her! I am adangerous man to fall foul off See here." He stepped swiftlyforward, seized the poker, and bent it into a curve with his hugebrown hands.

　　"See that you keep yourself out of my grip," he snarled, and hurlingthe twisted poker into the fireplace he strode out of the room."He seems a very amiable person," said Holmes, laughing. "I am notquite so bulky, but if he had remained I might have shown him thatmy grip was not much more feeble than his own." As he spoke hepicked up the steel poker and, with a sudden effort, straightened itout again.

　　"Fancy his having the insolence to confound me with the officialdetective force! This incident gives zest to our investigation,however, and I only trust that our little friend will not sufferfrom her imprudence in allowing this brute to trace her. And now,Watson, we shall order breakfast, and afterwards I shall walk downto Doctors' Commons, where I hope to get some data which may help usin this matter."

　　It was nearly one o'clock when Sherlock Holmes returned from hisexcursion. He held in his hand a sheet of blue paper, scrawled overwith notes and figures.

　　"I have seen the will of the deceased wife," said he. "Todetermine its exact meaning I have been obliged to work out thepresent prices of the investments with which it is concerned. Thetotal income, which at the time of the wife's death was little shortof L1000 is now, through the fall in agricultural prices, not morethan L750. Each daughter can claim an income of L250, in case ofmarriage. It is evident, therefore, that if both girls had married,this beauty would have had a mere pittance, while even one of themwould cripple him to a very serious extent. My morning's work hasnot been wasted, since it has proved that he has the very strongestmotives for standing in the way of anything of the sort. And now,Watson, this is too serious for dawdling, especially as the old man isaware that we are interesting ourselves in his affairs; so if youare ready, we shall call a cab and drive to Waterloo. I should be verymuch obliged if you would slip your revolver into your pocket. AnEley's No. 2 is an excellent argument with gentlemen who can twiststeel pokers into knots. That and a tooth-brush are, I think, all thatwe need."

　　At Waterloo we were fortunate in catching a train for Leatherhead,where we hired a trap at the station inn and drove for four or fivemiles through the lovely Surrey lanes. It was a perfect day, with abright sun and a few fleecy clouds in the heavens. The trees andwayside hedges were just throwing out their first green shoots, andthe air was full of the pleasant smell of the moist earth. To me atleast there was a strange contrast between the sweet promise of thespring and this sinister quest upon which we were engaged. Mycompanion sat in the front of the trap, his arms folded, his hatpulled down over his eyes, and his chin sunk upon his breast, buriedin the deepest thought. Suddenly, however, he started, tapped me onthe shoulder, and pointed over the meadows.

　　"Look there!" said he.

　　A heavily timbered park stretched up in a gentle slope, thickeninginto a grove at the highest point. From amid the branches there juttedout the gray gables and high roof-tree of a very old mansion."Stoke Moran?" said he.

　　"Yes, sir, that be the house of Dr. Grimesby Roylott," remarkedthe driver.

　　"There is some building going on there," said Holmes, "that is wherewe are going."

　　"There's the village," said the driver, pointing to a cluster ofroofs some distance to the left; "but if you want to get to the house,you'll find it shorter to get over this stile, and so by the foot-pathover the fields. There it is, where the lady is walking.""And the lady, I fancy, is Miss Stoner," observed Holmes, shadinghis eyes. "Yes, I think we had better do as you suggest."We got off, paid our fare, and the trap rattled back on its way toLeatherhead.

　　"I thought it as well," said Holmes as we climbed the stile, "thatthis fellow should think we had come here as architects, or on somedefinite business. It may stop his gossip. Good-afternoon, MissStoner. You see that we have been as good as our word."Our client of the morning had hurried forward to meet us with a facewhich spoke her joy. "I have been waiting so eagerly for you," shecried, shaking hands with us warmly. "All has turned out splendidly.Dr. Roylott has gone to town, and it is unlikely that he will beback before evening."

　　"We have had the pleasure of making the doctors acquaintance,"said Holmes, and in a few words he sketched out what had occurred.Miss Stoner turned white to the lips as she listened.

　　"Good heavens!" she cried, "he has followed me, then."

　　"So it appears."

　　"He is so cunning that I never know when I am safe from him. Whatwill he say when he returns?"

　　"He must guard himself, for he may find that there is someone morecunning than himself upon his track. You must lock yourself up fromhim to-night. If he is violent, we shall take you away to youraunt's at Harrow. Now, we must make the best use of our time, sokindly take us at once to the rooms which we are to examine."The building was of gray, lichen-blotched stone, with a high centralportion and two curving wings, like the claws of a crab, thrown out oneach side. In one of these wings the windows were broken and blockedwith wooden boards, while the roof was partly caved in, a picture ofruin. The central portion was in little better repair, but theright-hand block was comparatively modern, and the blinds in thewindows, with the blue smoke curling up from the chimneys, showed thatthis was where the family resided. Some scaffolding had been erectedagainst the end wall, and the stone-work had been broken into, butthere were no signs of any workmen at the moment of our visit.Holmes walked slowly up and down the ill-trimmed lawn and examinedwith deep attention the outsides of the windows.

　　"This, I take it, belongs to the room in which you used to sleep,the centre one to your sister's, and the one next to the main buildingto Dr. Roylott's chamber?"

　　"Exactly so. But I am now sleeping in the middle one."

　　"Pending the alterations, as I understand. By the way, there doesnot seem to be any very pressing need for repairs at that end wall.""There were none. I believe that it was an excuse to move me from myroom."

　　"Ah! that is suggestive. Now, on the other side of this narrowwing runs the corridor from which these three rooms open. There arewindows in it, of course?"

　　"Yes, but very small ones. Too narrow for anyone to pass through.""As you both locked your doors at night, your rooms wereunapproachable from that side. Now, would you have the kindness togo into your room and bar your shutters?"

　　Miss Stoner did so, and Holmes, after a careful examinationthrough the open window, endeavoured in every way to force the shutteropen, but without success. There was no slit through which a knifecould be passed to raise the bar. Then with his lens he tested thehinges, but they were of solid iron, built firmly into the massivemasonry. "Hum!" said he, scratching his chin in some perplexity, "mytheory certainly presents some difficulties. No one could pass theseshutters if they were bolted. Well, we shall see if the insidethrows any light upon the matter."

　　A small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which thethree bedrooms opened. Holmes refused to examine the third chamber, sowe passed at once to the second, that in which Miss Stoner was nowsleeping, and in which her sister had met with her fate. It was ahomely little room, with a low ceiling and a gaping fireplace, afterthe fashion of old country-houses. A brown chest of drawers stood inone corner, a narrow white-counterpaned bed in another, and adressing table on the left-hand side of the window. These articles,with two small wickerwork chairs, made up all the furniture in theroom save for a square of Wilton carpet in the centre. The boardsround and the panelling of the walls were of brown, worm-eaten oak, soold and discoloured that it may have dated from the originalbuilding of the house. Holmes drew one of the chairs into a corner andsat silent, while his eyes travelled round and round and up anddown, taking in every detail of the apartment.

　　"Where does that bell communicate with?" he asked at last,pointing to a thick bell-rope which hung down beside the bed, thetassel actually lying upon the pillow.

　　"It goes to the housekeeper's room."

　　"It looks newer than the other things?"

　　"Yes, it was only put there a couple of years ago."

　　"Your sister asked for it I suppose?"

　　"No, I never heard of her using it. We used always to get what wewanted for ourselves."

　　"Indeed, it seemed unnecessary to put so nice a bell-pull there. Youwill excuse me for a few minutes while I satisy myself as to thisfloor." He threw himself down upon his face with his lens in hishand and crawled swiftly backward and forward, examining minutelythe cracks between the boards. Then he did the same with the wood-workwith which the chamber was panelled. Finally he walked over to the bedand spent some time in staring at it and in running his eye up anddown the wall. Finally he took the bell-rope in his hand and gave it abrisk tug.

　　"Why, it's a dummy," said he.

　　"Won't it ring?"

　　"No, it is not even attached to a wire. This is very interesting.You can see now that it is fastened to a hook just above where thelittle opening for the ventilator is."

　　"How very absurd! I never noticed that before."

　　"Very strange!" muttered Holmes, pulling at the rope. "There are oneor two very singular points about this room. For example, what afool a builder must be to open a ventilator into another room, when,with the same trouble, he might have communicated with the outsideair!"

　　"That is also quite modern," said the lady.

　　"Done about the same time as the bell-rope?" remarked Holmes."Yes, there were several little changes carried out about thattime."

　　"They seem to have been of a most interesting character-dummybell-ropes, and ventilators which do not ventilate. With yourpermission, Miss Stoner, we shall now carry our researches into theinner apartment."

　　Dr. Grimesby Roylott's chamber was larger than that of hisstepdaughter, but was as plainly furnished. A camp-bed, a small woodenshelf full of books, mostly of a technical character, an armchairbeside the bed, a plain wooden chair against the wall, a roundtable, and a large iron safe were the principal things which met theeye. Holmes walked slowly round and examined each and all of them withthe keenest interest.

　　"What's in here?" he asked, tapping the safe.

　　"My stepfather's business papers."

　　"Oh! you have seen inside, then?"

　　"Only once, some years ago. I remember that it was full of papers.""There isn't a cat in it, for example?'

　　"No. What a strange idea!"

　　"Well, look at this!" He took up a small saucer of milk whichstood on the top of it.

　　"No; we don't keep a cat. But there is a cheetah and a baboon.""Ah, yes, of course! Well, a cheetah is just a big cat, and yet asaucer of milk does not go very far in satisfying its wants, Idaresay. There is one point which I should wish to determine." Hesquatted down in front of the wooden chair and examined the seat of itwith the greatest attention.

　　"Thank you. That is quite settled," said he, rising and puttinghis lens in his pocket. "Hello! Here is something interesting!"The object which had caught his eye was a small dog lash hung on onecorner of the bed. The lash, however, was curled upon itself andtied so as to make a loop of whipcord.

　　"What do you make of that, Watson?"

　　"It's a common enough lash. But I don't know why it should be tied.""That is not quite so common, is it? Ah, me! it's a wicked world,and when a clever man turns his brains to crime it is the worst ofall. I think that I have seen enough now, Miss Stoner, and with yourpermission we shall walk out upon the lawn."

　　I had never seen my friend's face so grim or his brow so dark asit was when we turned from the scene of this investigation. We hadwalked several times up and down the lawn, neither Miss Stoner normyself liking to break in upon his thoughts before he roused himselffrom his reverie.

　　"It is very essential, Miss Stoner," said he, "that you shouldabsolutely follow my advice in every respect."

　　"I shall most certainly do so."

　　"The matter is too serious for any hesitation. Your life maydepend upon your compliance."

　　"I assure you that I am in your hands."

　　"In the first place, both my friend and I must spend the night inyour room."

　　Both Miss Stoner and I gazed at him in astonishment.

　　"Yes, it must be so. Let me explain. I believe that that is thevillage inn over there?"

　　"Yes, that is the Crown."

　　"Very good. Your windows would be visible from there?"

　　"Certainly."

　　"You must confine yourself to your room, on pretence of aheadache, when your stepfather comes back. Then when you hear himretire for the night, you must open the shutters of your window,undo the hasp, put your lamp there as a signal to us, and thenwithdraw quietly with everything which you are likely to want into theroom which you used to occupy. I have no doubt that, in spite of therepairs, you could manage there for one night."

　　"Oh, yes, easily."

　　"The rest you will leave in our hands."

　　"But what will you do?"

　　"We shall spend the night in your room, and we shall investigate thecause of this noise which has disturbed you."

　　"I believe, Mr. Holmes, that you have already made up your mind,"said Miss Stoner, laying her hand upon my companion's sleeve."Perhaps I have."

　　"Then, for pity's sake, tell me what was the cause of my sister'sdeath."

　　"I should prefer to have clearer proofs before I speak.""You can at least tell me whether my own thought is correct, andif she died from some sudden fright."

　　"No, I do not think so. I think that there was probably some moretangible cause. And now, Miss Stoner, we must leave you, for if Dr.Roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain. Good-bye,and be brave, for if you will do what I have told you rest assuredthat we shall soon drive away the dangers that threaten you."Sherlock Holmes and I had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom andsitting-room at the Crown Inn. They were on the upper floor, andfrom our window we could command a view of the avenue gate, and of theinhabited wing of Stoke Moran Manor House. At dusk we saw Dr. GrimesbyRoylott drive past, his huge form looming up beside the littlefigure of the lad who drove him. The boy had some slight difficulty inundoing the heavy iron gates, and we heard the hoarse roar of thedoctor's voice and saw the fury with which he shook his clinched fistsat him. The trap drove on, and a few minutes later we saw a suddenlight spring up among the trees as the lamp was lit in one of thesitting-rooms.

　　"Do you know, Watson," said Holmes as we sat together in thegathering darkness, "I have really some scruples as to taking youto-night. There is a distinct element of danger."

　　"Can I be of assistance?"

　　"Your presence might be invaluable."

　　"Then I shall certainly come."

　　"It is very kind of you."

　　"You speak of danger. You have evidently seen more in these roomsthan was visible to me."

　　"No, but I fancy that I may have deduced a little more. I imaginethat you saw all that I did."

　　"I saw nothing remarkable save the bell-rope, and what purposethat could answer I confess is more than I can imagine.""You saw the ventilator, too?"

　　"Yes, but I do not think that it is such a very unusual thing tohave a small opening between two rooms. It was so small that a ratcould hardly pass through."

　　"I knew that we should find a ventilator before ever we came toStoke Moran."

　　"My dear Holmes!"

　　"Oh, yes, I did. You remember in her statement she said that hersister could smell Dr. Roylott's cigar. Now, of course thatsuggested at once that there must be a communication between the tworooms. It could only be a small one, or would have been remarkedupon at the coroner's inquiry. I deduced a ventilator.""But what harm can there be in that?"

　　"Well, there is at least a curious coincidence of dates. Aventilator is made, a cord is hung, and a lady who sleeps in the beddies. Does not that strike you?"

　　"I cannot as yet see any connection."

　　"Did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed?""No."

　　"It was clamped to the floor. Did you ever see a bed fastened likethat before?"

　　"I cannot say that I have."

　　"The lady could not move her bed. It must always be in the samerelative position to the ventilator and to the rope-or so we maycall it, since it was clearly never meant for a bell-pull.""Holmes," I cried, "I seem to see dimly what you are hinting at.We are only just in time to prevent some subtle and horrible crime.""Subtle enough and horrible enough. When a doctor does go wrong heis the first of criminals. He has nerve and he has knowledge. Palmerand Pritchard were among the heads of their profession. This manstrikes even deeper, but I think, Watson, that we shall be able tostrike deeper still. But we shall have horrors enough before the nightis over; for goodness' sake let us have a quiet pipe and turn ourminds for a few hours to something more cheerful."

　　About nine o'clock the light among the trees was extinguished, andall was dark in the direction of the Manor House. Two hours passedslowly away, and then, suddenly, just at the stroke of eleven, asingle bright light shone out right in front of us.

　　"That is our signal," said Holmes, springing to his feet; "itcomes from the middle window."

　　As we passed out he exchanged a few words with the landlord,explaining that we were going on a late visit to an acquaintance,and that it was possible that we might spend the night there. A momentlater we were out on the dark road, a chill wind blowing in our faces,and one yellow light twinkling in front of us through the gloom toguide us on our sombre errand.

　　There was little difficulty in entering the grounds, forunrepaired breaches gaped in the old park wall. Making our way amongthe trees, we reached the lawn, crossed it, and were about to enterthrough the window when out from a clump of laurel bushes there dartedwhat seemed to be a hideous and distorted child, who threw itself uponthe grass with writhing limbs and then ran swiftly across the lawninto the darkness.

　　"My God!" I whispered; "did you see it?"

　　Holmes was for the moment as startled as I. His hand closed like avise upon my wrist in his agitation. Then he broke into a low laughand put his lips to my ear.

　　"It is a nice household," he murmured. "That is the baboon."I had forgotten the strange pets which the doctor affected. Therewas a cheetah, too; perhaps we might find it upon our shoulders at anymoment. I confess that I felt easier in my mind when, afterfollowing Holmes's example and slipping off my shoes, I found myselfinside the bedroom. My companion noiselessly closed the shutters,moved the lamp onto the table, and cast his eyes round the room. Allwas as we had seen it in the daytime. Then creeping up to me andmaking a trumpet of his hand, he whispered into my ear again so gentlythat it was all that I could do to distinguish the words:"The least sound would be fatal to our plans."

　　I nodded to show that I had heard.

　　"We must sit without light. He would see it through the ventilator."I nodded again.

　　"Do not go asleep, your very life may depend upon it. Have yourpistol ready in case we should need it. I will sit on the side ofthe bed, and you in that chair."

　　I took out my revolver and laid it on the corner of the table.Holmes had brought up a long thin cane, and this he placed uponthe bed beside him. By it he laid the box of matches and the stumpof a candle. Then he turned down the lamp, and we were left indarkness.

　　How shall I ever forget that dreadful vigil? I could not hear asound, not even the drawing of a breath, and yet I knew that mycompanion sat open-eyed, within a few feet of me, in the same state ofnervous tension in which I was myself. The shutters cut off theleast ray of light and we waited in absolute darkness. From outsidecame the occasional cry of a night-bird, and once at our very window along drawn catlike whine, which told us that the cheetah was indeed atliberty. Far away we could hear the deep tones of the parish clock,which boomed out every quarter of an hour. How long they seemed, thosequarters! Twelve struck, and one and two and three, and still we satwaiting silently for whatever might befall.

　　Suddenly there was the momentary gleam of a light up in thedirection of the ventilator, which vanished immediately, but wassucceeded by a strong smell of burning oil and heated metal. Someonein the next room had lit a dark-lanten. I heard a gentle sound ofmovement, and then all was silent once more, though the smell grewstronger. For half an hour I sat with straining ears. Then suddenlyanother sound became audible-a very gentle, soothing sound, likethat of a small jet of steam escaping continually from a kettle. Theinstant that we heard it, Holmes sprang from the bed, struck amatch, and lashed furiously with his cane at the bell-pull."You see it, Watson?" he yelled. "You see it?"

　　But I saw nothing. At the moment when Holmes struck the light Iheard a low, clear whistle, but the sudden glare flashing into myweary eyes made it impossible for me to tell what it was at which myfriend lashed so savagely. I could, however, see that his face wasdeadly pale and filled with horror and loathing.

　　He had ceased to strike and was gazing up at the ventilator whensuddenly there broke from the silence of the night the most horriblecry to which I have ever listened. It swelled up louder and louder,a hoarse yell of pain and fear and anger all mingled in the onedreadful shriek. They say that away down in the village, and even inthe distant parsonage, that cry raised the sleepers from their beds.It struck cold to our hearts, and I stood gazing at Holmes, and heat me, until the last echoes of it had died away into the silence fromwhich it rose.

　　"What can it mean?" I gasped.

　　"It means that it is all over," Holmes answered. "And perhaps, afterall, it is for the best. Take your pistol, and we will enter Dr.Roylott's room."

　　With a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the corridor.Twice he struck at the chamber door without any reply from within.Then he turned the handle and entered, I at his heels, with the cockedpistol in my hand.

　　It was a singular sight which met our eyes. On the table stood adark-lantern with the shutter half open, throwing a brilliant beamof light upon the iron safe, the door of which was ajar. Beside thistable, on the wooden chair, sat Dr. Grimesby Roylott, clad in a longgray dressing-gown, his bare ankles protruding beneath, and his feetthrust into red heelless Turkish slippers. Across his lap lay theshort stock with the long lash which we had noticed during the day.His chin was cocked upward and his eyes were fixed in a dreadful,rigid stare at the corner of the ceiling. Round his brow he had apeculiar yellow band, with brownish speckles, which seemed to be boundtightly round his head. As we entered he made neither sound normotion.

　　"The band! The speckled band!" whispered Holmes.

　　I took a step forward. In an instant his strange headgear began tomove, and there reared itself from among his hair the squatdiamond-shaped head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent."It is a swamp adder!" cried Holmes; "the deadliest snake inIndia. He has died within ten seconds of being bitten. Violencedoes, in truth, recoil upon the violent and the schemer falls into thepit which he digs for another. Let us thrust this creature back intoits den, and we can then remove Miss Stoner to some place of shelterand let the county police know what has happened."

　　As he spoke he drew the dog-whip swiftly from the dead man's lap,and throwing the noose round the reptile's neck he drew it from itshorrid perch and, carrying it at arm's length, threw it into theiron safe, which he closed upon it.

　　Such are the true facts of the death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott, ofStoke Moran. It is not necessary that I should prolong a narrativewhich has already run to too great a length by telling how we brokethe sad news to the terrified girl, how we conveyed her by the morningtrain to the care of her good aunt at Harrow, of how the slowprocess of official inquiry came to the conclusion that the doctor methis fate while indiscreetly playing with a dangerous pet. The littlewhich I had yet to learn of the case was told me by Sherlock Holmes aswe travelled back next day.

　　"I had," said he, "come to an entirely erroneous conclusion whichshows, my dear Watson, how dangerous it always is to reason frominsufficient data. The presence of the gypsies, and the use of theword 'band,' which was used by the poor girl, no doubt to explainthe appearance which she had caught a hurried glimpse of by thelight of her match, were sufficient to put me upon an entirely wrongscent. I can only claim the merit that I instantly reconsidered myposition when, however, it became clear to me that whatever dangerthreatened an occupant of the room could not come either from thewindow or the door. My attention was speedily drawn, as I have alreadyremarked to you, to this ventilator, and to the bell-rope which hungdown to the bed. The discovery that this was a dummy, and that the bedwas clamped to the floor, instantly gave rise to the suspicion thatthe rope was there as a bridge for something passing through thehole and coming to the bed. The idea of a snake instantly occurredto me, and when I coupled it with my knowledge that the doctor wasfurnished with a supply of creatures from India, I felt that I wasprobably on the right track. The idea of using a form of poisonwhich could not possibly be discovered by any chemical test was justsuch a one as would occur to a clever and ruthless man who had hadan Eastern training. The rapidity with which such a poison wouldtake effect would also, from his point of view, be an advantage. Itwould be a sharp-eyed coroner, indeed, who could distinguish the twolittle dark punctures which would show where the poison fangs had donetheir work. Then I thought of the whistle. Of course he must recallthe snake before the morning light revealed it to the victim. He hadtrained it, probably by the use of the milk which we saw, to return tohim when summoned. He would put it through this ventilator at the hourthat he thought best, with the certainty that it would crawl downthe rope and land on the bed. It might or might not bite the occupant,perhaps she might escape every night for a week, but sooner or latershe must fall a victim.

　　"I had come to these conclusions before ever I had entered his room.An inspection of his chair showed me that he had been in the habitof standing on it, which of course would be necessary in order that heshould reach the ventilator. The sight of the safe, the saucer ofmilk, and the loop of whipcord were enough to finally dispel anydoubts which may have remained. The metallic clang heard by MissStoner was obviously caused by her stepfather hastily closing the doorof his safe upon its terrible occupant. Having once made up my mind,you know the steps which I took in order to put the matter to theproof. I heard the creature hiss as I have no doubt that you did also,and I instantly lit the light and attacked it."

　　"With the result of driving it through the ventilator.""And also with the result of causing it to turn upon its master atthe other side. Some of the blows of my cane came home and rousedits snakish temper, so that it flew upon the first person it saw. Inthis way I am no doubt indirectly responsible for Dr. GrimesbyRoylott's death, and I cannot say that it is likely to weigh veryheavily upon my conscience."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1924

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE SUSSEX VAMPIRE

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　Holmes had read carefully a note which the last post had broughthim. Then, with the dry chuckle which was his nearest approach to alaugh, he tossed it over to me.

　　"For a mixture of the modern and the mediaeval, if the practical andof the wildly fanciful, I think this is surely the limit," said he."What do you make of it, Watson?"

　　I read as follows:

　　46, OLD JEWRY,

　　Nov. 19th.

　　Re Vampires

　　SIR:

　　Our client, Mr. Robert Ferguson, of Ferguson and Muirhead, teabrokers, of Mincing Lane, has made some inquiry from us in acommunication of even date concerning vampires. As our firmspecializes entirely upon the assessment of machinery the matterhardly comes within our purview, and we have therefore recommended Mr.Ferguson to call upon you and lay the matter before you. We have notforgotten your successful action in the case of Matilda Briggs.We are, sir,

　　Faithfully yours,

　　MORRISON, MORRISON, AND DODD.

　　per E. J. C.

　　"Matilda Briggs was not the name of a young woman, Watson," saidHolmes in a reminiscent voice. "It was a ship which is associated withthe giant rat of Sumatra, a story for which the world is not yetprepared. But what do we know about vampires? Does it come withinour purview either? Anything is better than stagnation, but reallywe seem to have been switched on to a Grimms' fairy tale. Make along arm, Watson, and see what V has to say."

　　I leaned back and took down the great index volume to which hereferred. Holmes balanced it on his knee, and his eyes moved slowlyand lovingly over the record of old cases, mixed with theaccumulated information of a lifetime.

　　"Voyage of the Gloria Scott," he read. "That was a bad business. Ihave some recollection that you made a record of it, Watson, thoughI was unable to congratulate you upon the result. Victor Lynch, theforger. Venomous lizard or gila. Remarkable case, that! Vittoria,the circus belle. Vanderbilt and the Yeggman. Vipers. Vigor, theHammersmith wonder. Hullo! Hullo! Good old index. You can't beat it.Listen to this, Watson. Vampirism in Hungary. And again, Vampires inTransylvania." He turned over the pages with eagerness, but after ashort intent perusal he threw down the great book with a snarl ofdisappointment.

　　"Rubbish, Watson, rubbish! What have we to do with walking corpseswho can only be held in their grave by stakes driven through theirhearts? It's pure lunacy."

　　"But surely," said I, "the vampire was not necessarily a dead man? Aliving person might have the habit. I have read, for example, of theold sucking the blood of the young in order to retain their youth.""You are right, Watson. It mentions the legend in one of thesereferences. But are we to give serious attention to such things?This agency stands flat-footed upon the ground, and there it mustremain. The world is big enough for us. No ghosts need apply. I fearthat we cannot take Mr. Robert Ferguson very seriously. Possiblythis note may be from him and may throw some light upon what isworrying him."

　　He took up a second letter which had lain unnoticed upon the tablewhile he had been absorbed with the first. This he began to readwith a smile of amusement upon his face which gradually faded awayinto an expression of intense interest and concentration. When hehad finished he sat for some little time lost in thought with theletter dangling from his fingers. Finally, with a start, he arousedhimself from his reverie.

　　"Cheeseman's, Lamberley. Where is Lamberley, Watson?"

　　"It is in Sussex, south of Horsham."

　　"Not very far, eh? And Cheeseman's?"

　　"I know that country, Holmes. It is full of old houses which arenamed after the men who built them centuries ago. You get Odley'sand Harvey's and Carriton's- the folk are forgotten but their nameslive in their houses.

　　"Precisely," said Holmes coldly. It was one of the peculiaritiesof his proud, self-contained nature that though he docketed anyfresh information very quietly and accurately in his brain, heseldom made any acknowledgment to the giver. "I rather fancy weshall know a good deal more about Cheeseman's, Lamberley, before weare through. The letter is, as I had hoped, from Robert Ferguson. Bythe way, he claims acquaintance with you."

　　"With me!"

　　"You had better read it."

　　He handed the letter across. It was headed with the address quoted.DEAR MR. HOLMES [it said]:

　　I have been recommended to you by my lawyers, but indeed thematter is so extraordinarily delicate that it is most difficult todiscuss. It concerns a friend for whom I am acting. This gentlemanmarried some five years ago a Peruvian lady, the daughter of aPeruvian merchant, whom he had met in connection with theimportation of nitrates. The lady was very beautiful, but the factof her foreign birth and of her alien religion always caused aseparation of interests and of feelings between husband and wife, sothat after a time his love may have cooled towards her and he may havecome to regard their union as a mistake. He felt there were sides ofher character which he could never explore or understand. This was themore painful as she was as loving a wife as a man could have- to allappearance absolutely devoted.

　　Now for the point which I will make more plain when we meet. Indeed,this note is merely to give you a general idea of the situation and toascertain whether you would care to interest yourself in the matter.The lady began to show some curious traits quite alien to herordinarily sweet and gentle disposition. The gentleman had beenmarried twice and he had one son by the first wife. This boy was nowfifteen, a very charming and affectionate youth, though unhappilyinjured through an accident in childhood. Twice the wife was caught inthe act of assaulting this poor lad in the most unprovoked way. Onceshe struck him with a stick and left a great weal on his arm.This was a small matter, however, compared with her conduct to herown child, a dear boy just under one year of age. On one occasionabout a month ago this child had been left by its nurse for a fewminutes. A loud cry from the baby, as of pain, called the nurseback. As she ran into the room she saw her employer, the lady, leaningover the baby and apparently biting his neck. There was a smallwound in the neck from which a stream of blood had escaped. Thenurse was so horrified that she wished to call the husband, but thelady implored her not to do so and actually gave her five pounds asa price for her silence. No explanation was ever given, and for themoment the matter was passed over.

　　It left, however, a terrible impression upon the nurse's mind, andfrom that time she began to watch her mistress closely and to keep acloser guard upon the baby, whom she tenderly loved. It seemed toher that even as she watched the mother, so the mother watched her,and that every time she was compelled to leave the baby alone themother was waiting to get at it. Day and night the nurse covered thechild, and day and night the silent, watchful mother seemed to belying in wait as a wolf waits for a lamb. It must read most incredibleto you, and yet I beg you to take it seriously, for a child's life anda man's sanity may depend upon it.

　　At last there came one dreadful day when the facts could no longerbe concealed from the husband. The nurse's nerve had given way; shecould stand the strain no longer, and she made a clean breast of itall to the man. To him it seemed as wild a tale as it may now seemto you. He knew his wife to be a loving wife, and, save for theassaults upon her stepson, a loving mother. Why, then, should shewound her own dear little baby? He told the nurse that she wasdreaming, that her suspicions were those of a lunatic, and that suchlibels upon her mistress were not to be tolerated. While they weretalking a sudden cry of pain was heard. Nurse and master rushedtogether to the nursery. Imagine his feelings, Mr. Holmes, as he sawhis wife rise from a kneeling position beside the cot and saw bloodupon the child's exposed neck and upon the sheet. With a cry ofhorror, he turned his wife's face to the light and saw blood all roundher lips. It was she- she beyond all question- who had drunk thepoor baby's blood.

　　So the matter stands. She is now confined to her room. There hasbeen no explanation. The husband is half demented. He knows, and Iknow, little of vampirism beyond the name. We had thought it wassome wild tale of foreign parts. And yet here in the very heart of theEnglish Sussex- well, all this can be discussed with you in themorning. Will you see me? Will you use your great powers in aiding adistracted man? If so, kindly wire to Ferguson, Cheeseman's,Lamberley, and I will be at your rooms by ten o'clock.

　　Yours faithfully,

　　ROBERT FERGUSON.

　　P. S. I believe your friend Watson played Rugby for Blackheathwhen I was three-quarter for Richmond. It is the only personalintroduction which I can give.

　　"Of course I remembered him," said I as I laid down the letter. "BigBob Ferguson, the finest three-quarter Richmond ever had. He wasalways a good-natured chap. It's like him to be so concerned over afriend's case."

　　Holmes looked at me thoughtfully and shook his head.

　　"I never get your limits, Watson," said he. "There are unexploredpossibilities about you. Take a wire down, like a good fellow. 'Willexamine your case with pleasure.'"

　　"Your case!"

　　"We must not let him think that this agency is a home for theweak-minded. Of course it is his case. Send him that wire and letthe matter rest till morning."

　　Promptly at ten o'clock next morning Ferguson strode into ourroom. I had remembered him as a long, slab-sided man with looselimbs and a fine turn of speed which had carried him round many anopposing back. There is surely nothing in life more painful than tomeet the wreck of a fine athlete whom one has known in his prime. Thisgreat frame had fallen in, his flaxen hair was scanty, and hisshoulders were bowed. I fear that I roused corresponding emotions inhim.

　　"Hullo, Watson," said he, and his voice was still deep and hearty."You don't look quite the man you did when I threw you over theropes into the crowd at the Old Deer Park. I expect I have changed abit also. But it's this last day or two that has aged me. I see byyour telegram, Mr. Holmes, that it is no use my pretending to beanyone's deputy."

　　"It is simpler to deal direct," said Holmes.

　　"Of course it is. But you can imagine how difficult it is when youare speaking of the one woman whom you are bound to protect andhelp. What can I do? How am I to go to the police with such a story?And yet the kiddies have got to be protected. Is it madness, Mr.Holmes? Is it something in the blood? Have you any similar case inyour experience? For God's sake, give me some advice, for I am at mywit's end."

　　"Very naturally, Mr. Ferguson. Now sit here and pull yourselftogether and give me a few clear answers. I can assure you that I amvery far from being at my wit's and, and that I am confident weshall find some solution. First of all, tell me what steps you havetaken. Is your wife still near the children?"

　　"We had a dreadful scene. She is a most loving woman, Mr. Holmes. Ifever a woman loved a man with all her heart and soul, she loves me.She was cut to the heart that I should have discovered thishorrible, this incredible, secret. She would not even speak. Shegave no answer to my reproaches, save to gaze at me with a sort ofwild, despairing look in her eyes. Then she rushed to her room andlocked herself in. Since then she has refused to see me. She has amaid who was with her before her marriage, Dolores by name- a friendrather than a servant. She takes her food to her."

　　"Then the child is in no immediate danger?"

　　"Mrs. Mason, the nurse, has sworn that she will not leave it nightor day. I can absolutely trust her. I am more uneasy about poor littleJack, for, as I told you in my note, he has twice been assaulted byher."

　　"But never wounded?"

　　"No, she struck him savagely. It is the more terrible as he is apoor little inoffensive cripple." Ferguson's gaunt features softenedas he spoke of his boy. "You would think that the dear lad's conditionwould soften anyone's heart. A fall in childhood and a twistedspine, Mr. Holmes. But the dearest, most loving heart within."Holmes had picked up the letter of yesterday and was reading itover. "What other inmates are there in your house, Mr. Ferguson?""Two servants who have not been long with us. One stable-hand,Michael, who sleeps in the house. My wife, myself, my boy Jack,baby, Dolores, and Mrs. Mason. That is all."

　　"I gather that you did not know your wife well at the time of yourmarriage?"

　　"I had only known her a few weeks."

　　"How long had this maid Dolores been with her?"

　　"Some years."

　　"Then your wife's character would really be better known byDolores than by you?"

　　"Yes, you may say so."

　　Holmes made a note.

　　"I fancy," said he, "that I may be of more use at Lamberley thanhere. It is eminently a case for personal investigation. If the ladyremains in her room, our presence could not annoy or inconvenienceher. Of course, we would stay at the inn."

　　Ferguson gave a gesture of relief.

　　"It is what I hoped, Mr. Holmes. There is an excellent train attwo from Victoria if you could come."

　　"Of course we could come. There is a lull at present. I can give youmy undivided energies. Watson, of course, comes with us. But there areone or two points upon which I wish to be very sure before I start.This unhappy lady, as I understand it, has appeared to assault boththe children, her own baby and your little son?"

　　"That is so."

　　"But the assaults take different forms, do they not? She hasbeaten your son."

　　"Once with a stick and once very savagely with her hands.""Did she give no explanation why she struck him?"

　　"None save that she hated him. Again and again she said so.""Well, that is not unknown among stepmothers. A posthumous jealousy,we will say. Is the lady jealous by nature?"

　　"Yes, she is very jealous- jealous with all the strength of herfiery tropical love."

　　"But the boy- he is fifteen, I understand, and probably verydeveloped in mind, since his body has been circumscribed in action.Did he give you no explanation of these assaults?"

　　"No, he declared there was no reason."

　　"Were they good friends at other times?"

　　"No, there! was never any love between them."

　　"Yet you say he is affectionate?"

　　"Never in the world could there be so devoted a son. My life ishis life. He is absorbed in what I say or do."

　　Once again Holmes made a note. For some time he sat lost in thought."No doubt you and the boy were great comrades before this secondmarriage. You were thrown very close together, were you not?""Very much so."

　　"And the boy, having so affectionate a nature, was devoted, nodoubt, to the memory of his mother?"

　　"Most devoted."

　　"He would certainly seem to be a most interesting lad. There isone other point about these assaults. Were the strange attacks uponthe baby and the assaults upon your son at the same period?""In the first case it was so. It was is if some frenzy had seizedher, and she had vented her rage upon both. In the second case itwas only Jack who suffered. Mrs. Mason had no complaint to makeabout the baby."

　　"That certainly complicates matters."

　　"I don't quite follow you, Mr. Holmes."

　　"Possibly not. One forms provisional theories and waits for timeor fuller knowledge to explode them. A bad habit, Mr. Ferguson, buthuman nature is weak. I fear that your old friend here has given anexaggerated view of my scientific methods. However, I will only say atthe present stage that your problem does not appear to me to beinsoluble, and that you may expect to find us at Victoria at twoo'clock."

　　It was evening of a dull, foggy November day when, having left ourbags at the Chequers, Lamberley, we drove through the Sussex clay of along winding lane and finally reached the isolated and ancientfarmhouse in which Ferguson dwelt. It was a large, stragglingbuilding, very old in the centre, very new at the wings withtowering Tudor chimneys and a lichen-spotted, high-pitched roof ofHorsham slabs. The doorsteps were worn into curves, and the ancienttiles which lined the porch were marked with the rebus of a cheese anda man after the original builder. Within, the ceilings were corrugatedwith heavy oaken beams, and the uneven floors sagged into sharpcurves. An odour of age and decay pervaded the whole crumblingbuilding.

　　There was one very large central room into which Ferguson led us.Here, in a huge old-fashioned fireplace with an iron screen behindit dated 1670, there blazed and spluttered a splendid log fire.The room, as I gazed round, was a most singular mixture of dates andof places. The half-panelled walls may well have belonged to theoriginal yeoman farmer of the seventeenth century. They wereornamented, however, on the lower part by a line of well-chosen modernwater-colours; while above, where yellow plaster took the place ofoak, there was hung a fine collection of South American utensils andweapons, which had been brought, no doubt, by the Peruvian ladyupstairs. Holmes rose, with that quick curiosity which sprang from hiseager mind, and examined them with some care. He returned with hiseyes full of thought.

　　"Hullo!" he cried. "Hullo!"

　　A spaniel had lain in a basket in the corner. It came slowly forwardtowards its master, walking with difficulty. Its hind legs movedirregularly and its tail was on the ground. It licked Ferguson's hand."What is it, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"The dog. What's the matter with it?"

　　"That's what puzzled the vet. A sort of paralysis. Spinalmeningitis, he thought. But it is passing. He'll be all right soon-won't you, Carlo?"

　　A shiver of assent passed through the drooping tail. The dog'smournful eyes passed from one of us to the other. He knew that we werediscussing his case.

　　"Did it come on suddenly?"

　　"In a single night."

　　"How long ago?"

　　"It may have been four months ago."

　　"Very remarkable. Very suggestive."

　　"What do you see in it, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"A confirmation of what I had already thought."

　　"For God's sake, what do you think, Mr. Holmes? It may be a mereintellectual puzzle to you, but it is life and death to me! My wifea would-be murderer- my child in constant danger! Don't play withme, Mr. Holmes. It is too terribly serious."

　　The big Rugby three-quarter was trembling all over. Holmes put hishand soothingly upon his arm.

　　"I fear that there is pain for you, Mr. Ferguson, whatever thesolution may be," said he. "I would spare you all I can. I cannotsay more for the instant, but before I leave this house I hope I mayhave something definite."

　　"Please God you may! If you will excuse me, gentlemen, I will goup to my wife's room and see if there has been any change."He was away some minutes, during which Holmes resumed hisexamination of the curiosities upon the wall. When our host returnedit was clear from his downcast face that he had made no progress. Hebrought with him a tall, slim, brownfaced girl.

　　"The tea is ready, Dolores," said Ferguson. "See that yourmistress has everything she can wish."

　　"She verra ill," cried the girl, looking with indignant eyes ather master. "She no ask for food. She verra ill. She need doctor. Ifrightened stay alone with her without doctor."

　　Ferguson looked at me with a question in his eyes.

　　"I should be so glad if I could be of use."

　　"Would your mistress see Dr. Watson?"

　　"I take him. I no ask leave. She needs doctor."

　　"Then I'll come with you at once."

　　I followed the girl, who was quivering with strong emotion, up thestaircase and down an ancient corridor. At the end was an iron-clampedand massive door. It struck me as I looked at it that if Fergusontried to force his way to his wife he would find it no easy matter.The girl drew a key from her pocket, and the heavy oaken plankscreaked upon their old hinges. I passed in and she swiftly followed,fastening the door behind her.

　　On the bed a woman was lying who was clearly in a high fever. Shewas only half conscious, But as I entered she raised a pair offrightened but beautiful eyes and glared at me in apprehension. Seeinga stranger, she appeared to be relieved and sank back with a sigh uponthe pillow. I stepped up to her with a few reassuring words, and shelay still while I took her pulse and temperature. Both were high,and yet my impression was that the condition was rather that of mentaland nervous excitement than of any actual seizure.

　　"She lie like that one day, two day. I 'fraid she die," said thegirl.

　　The woman turned her flushed and handsome face towards me."Where is my husband?"

　　"He is below and would wish to see you."

　　"I will not see him. I will not see him." Then she seemed towander off into delirium. "A fiend! A fiend! Oh, what shall I dowith this devil?"

　　"Can I help you in any way?"

　　"No. No one can help. It is finished. All is destroyed. Do what Iwill, all is destroyed."

　　The woman must have some strange delusion. I could not see honestBob Ferguson in the character of fiend or devil.

　　"Madame," I said, "your husband loves you dearly. He is deeplygrieved at this happening."

　　Again she turned on me those glorious eyes.

　　"He loves me. Yes. But do I not love him? Do I not love him evento sacrifice myself rather than break his dear heart? That is how Ilove him. And yet he could think of me- he could speak of me so.""He is full of grief, but he cannot understand."

　　"No, he cannot understand. But he should trust."

　　"Will you not see him?" I suggested.

　　"No, no, I cannot forget those terrible words nor the look uponhis face. I will not see him. Go now. You can do nothing for me.Tell him only one thing. I want my child. I have a right to mychild. That is the only message I can send him." She turned her faceto the wall and would say no more.

　　I returned to the room downstairs, where Ferguson and Holmes stillsat by the fire. Ferguson listened moodily to my account of theinterview.

　　"How can I send her the child?" he said. "How do I know what strangeimpulse might come upon her? How can I ever forget how she rose frombeside it with its blood upon her lips?" He shuddered at therecollection. "The child is safe with Mrs. Mason, and there he mustremain."

　　A smart maid, the only modern thing which we had seen in thehouse, had brought in some tea. As she was serving it the dooropened and a youth entered the room. He was a remarkable lad,pale-faced and fair-haired, with excitable light blue eyes whichblazed into a sudden flame of emotion and joy as they rested uponhis father. He rushed forward and threw his arms round his neck withthe abandon of a loving girl.

　　"Oh, daddy," he cried, "I did not know that you were due yet. Ishould have been here to meet you. Oh, I am so glad to see you!"Ferguson gently disengaged himself from the embrace with some littleshow of embarrassment.

　　"Dear old chap," said he, patting the flaxen head with a very tenderhand. "I came early because my friends, Mr. Holmes and Dr. Watson,have been persuaded to come down and spend an evening with us.""Is that Mr. Holmes, the detective?"

　　"Yes."

　　The youth looked at us with a very penetrating and, as it seemedto me, unfriendly gaze.

　　"What about your other child, Mr. Ferguson?" asked Holmes. "Might wemake the acquaintance of the baby?"

　　"Ask Mrs. Mason to bring baby down," said Ferguson. The boy went offwith a curious, shambling gait which told my surgical eyes that he wassuffering from a weak spine. Presently he returned, and behind himcame a tall, gaunt woman bearing in her arms a very beautiful child,dark-eyed, golden-haired, a wonderful mixture of the Saxon and theLatin. Ferguson was evidently devoted to it, for he took it into hisarms and fondled it most tenderly.

　　Fancy anyone having the heart to hurt him," he muttered as heglanced down at the small, angry red pucker upon the cherub throat.It was at this moment that I chanced to glance at Holmes and saw amost singular intentness in his expression. His face was as set asif it had been carved out of old ivory, and his eyes, which hadglanced for a moment at father and child, were now fixed with eagercuriosity upon something at the other side of the room. Followinghis gaze I could only guess that he was looking out through the windowat the melancholy, dripping garden. It is true that a shutter had halfclosed outside and obstructed the view, but none the less it wascertainly at the window that Holmes was fixing his concentratedattention. Then he smiled, and his eyes came back to the baby. Onits chubby neck there was this small puckered mark. Withoutspeaking, Holmes examined it with care. Finally he shook one of thedimpled fists which waved in front of him.

　　"Good-bye, little man. You have made a strange start in life. Nurse,I should wish to have a word with you in private."

　　He took her aside and spoke earnestly for a few minutes. I onlyheard the last words, which were: "Your anxiety will soon, I hope,be set at rest." The woman, who seemed to be a sour, silent kind ofcreature, withdrew with the child.

　　"What is Mrs. Mason like?" asked Holmes.

　　"Not very prepossessing externally, as you can see, but a heart ofgold, and devoted to the child."

　　"Do you like her, Jack?" Holmes turned suddenly upon the boy. Hisexpressive mobile face shadowed over, and he shook his head."Jacky has very strong likes and dislikes," said Ferguson, puttinghis arm round the boy. "Luckily I am one of his likes."The boy cooed and nestled his head upon his father's breast.Ferguson gently disengaged him.

　　"Run away, little Jacky," said he, and he watched his son withloving eyes until he disappeared. "Now, Mr. Holmes," he continued whenthe boy was gone, "I really feel that I have brought you on a fool'serrand, for what can you possibly do save give me your sympathy? Itmust be an exceedingly delicate and complex affair from your pointof view."

　　"It is certainly delicate," said my friend with an amused smile,"but I have not been struck up to now with its complexity. It has beena case for intellectual deduction, but when this original intellectualdeduction is confirmed point by point by quite a number of independentincidents, then the subjective becomes objective and we can sayconfidently that we have reached our goal. I had, in fact, reachedit before we left Baker Street, and the rest has merely beenobservation and confirmation."

　　Ferguson put his big hand to his furrowed forehead.

　　"For heaven's sake, Holmes," he said hoarsely; "if you can see thetruth in this matter, do not keep me in suspense. How do I stand? Whatshall I do? I care nothing as to how you have found your facts so longas you have really got them."

　　"Certainly I owe you an explanation, and you shall have it. Butyou will permit me to handle the matter in my own way? Is the ladycapable of seeing us, Watson?"

　　"She is ill, but she is quite rational."

　　"Very good. It is only in her presence that we can clear thematter up. Let us go up to her."

　　"She will not see me," cried Ferguson.

　　"Oh, yes, she will," said Holmes. He scribbled a few lines upon asheet of paper. "You at least have the entree, Watson. Will you havethe goodness to give the lady this note?"

　　I ascended again and handed the note to Dolores, who cautiouslyopened the door. A minute later I heard a cry from within, a cry inwhich joy and surprise seemed to be blended. Dolores looked out."She will see them. She will leesten," said she.

　　At my summons Ferguson and Holmes came up. As we entered the roomFerguson took a step or two towards his wife, who had raised herselfin the bed, but she held out her hand to repulse him. He sank intoan armchair, while Holmes seated himself beside him, after bowing tothe lady, who looked at him with wide-eyed amazement.

　　"I think we can dispense with Dolores," said Holmes. "Oh, very well,madame, if you would rather she stayed I can see no objection. Now,Mr. Ferguson, I am a busy man with many calls, and my methods haveto be short and direct. The swiftest surgery is the least painful. Letme first say what will ease your mind. Your wife is a very good, avery loving, and a very ill-used woman."

　　Ferguson sat up with a cry of joy.

　　"Prove that, Mr. Holmes, and I am your debtor forever.""I will do so, but in doing so I must wound you deeply in anotherdirection."

　　"I care nothing so long as you clear my wife. Everything on earth isinsignificant compared to that."

　　"Let me tell you, then, the train of reasoning which passedthrough my mind in Baker Street. The idea of a vampire was to meabsurd. Such things do not happen in criminal practice in England. Andyet your observation was precise. You had seen the lady rise frombeside the child's cot with the blood upon her lips."

　　"I did."

　　"Did it not occur to you that a bleeding wound may be sucked forsome other purpose than to draw the blood from it? Was there not aqueen in English history who sucked such a wound to draw poison fromit?"

　　"Poison!"

　　"A South American household. My instinct felt the presence ofthose weapons upon the wall before, my eyes ever saw them. It mighthave been other poison, but that was what occurred to me. When I sawthat little empty quiver beside the small bird-bow, it was just what Iexpected to see. If the child were pricked with one of those arrowsdipped in curare or some other devilish drug, it would mean death ifthe venom were not sucked out.

　　"And the dog! If one were to use such a poison, would one not try itfirst in order to see that it had not lost its power? I did notforesee the dog, but at least I understand him and he fitted into myreconstruction.

　　"Now do you understand? Your wife feared such all attack. She saw itmade and saved the child's life, and yet she shrank from telling youall the truth, for she knew how you loved the boy and feared lest itbreak your heart."

　　"Jacky!"

　　"I watched him as you fondled the child just now. His face wasclearly reflected in the glass of the window where the shutterformed a background. I saw such jealousy, such cruel hatred, as I haveseldom seen in a human face."

　　"My Jacky!"

　　"You have to face it, Mr. Ferguson. It is the more painful becauseit is a distorted love, a maniacal exaggerated love for you, andpossibly for his dead mother, which has prompted his action. Hisvery soul is consumed with hatred for this splendid child, whosehealth and beauty are a contrast to his own weakness."

　　"Good God! It is incredible!"

　　"Have I spoken the truth, madame?"

　　The lady was sobbing, with her face buried in the pillows. Now sheturned to her husband.

　　"How could I tell you, Bob? I felt the blow it would be to you. Itwas better that I should wait and that it should come from someother lips than mine. When this gentleman, who seems to have powers ofmagic, wrote that he knew all, I was glad."

　　"I think a year at sea would be my prescription for Master Jacky,"said Holmes, rising from his chair. "Only one thing is stillclouded, madame. We can quite understand your attacks upon MasterJacky. There is a limit to a mother's patience. But how did you dareto leave the child these last two days?"

　　"I had told Mrs. Mason. She knew."

　　"Exactly. So I imagined."

　　Ferguson was standing by the bed, choking, his hands outstretchedand quivering.

　　"This, I fancy, is the time for our exit, Watson," said Holmes ina whisper. "If you will take one elbow of the too faithful Dolores,I will take the other. There, now," he added as he closed the doorbehind him, "I think we may leave them to settle the rest amongthemselves."

　　I have only one further note of this case. It is the letter whichHolmes wrote in final answer to that with which the narrativebegins. It ran thus:

　　BAKER STREET,

　　Nov. 21st.

　　Re Vampires

　　SIR:

　　Referring to your letter of the 19th, I beg to state that I havelooked into the inquiry of your client, Mr. Robert Ferguson, ofFerguson and Muirhead, tea brokers, of Mincing Lane, and that thematter has been brought to a satisfactory conclusion. With thanksfor your recommendation, I am, sir,

　　Faithfully yours,

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES.

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1926

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE THREE GABLES

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　I don't think that any of my adventures with Mr. Sherlock Holmesopened quite so abruptly, or so dramatically, as that which Iassociate with The Three Gables. I had not seen Holmes for some daysand had no idea of the new channel into which his activities hadbeen directed. He was in a chatty mood that morning, however, andhad just settled me into the well-worn low armchair on one side of thefire, while he had curled down with his pipe in his mouth upon theopposite chair, when our visitor arrived. If I had said that a madbull had arrived it would give a clearer impression of what occurred.The door had flown open and a huge negro had burst into the room. Hewould have been a comic figure if he had not been terrific, for he wasdressed in a very loud gray check suit with a flowing

　　salmon-coloured tie. His broad face and flattened nose were thrustforward, as his sullen dark eyes, with a smouldering gleam of malicein them, turned from one of us to the other.

　　"Which of you gentlemen is Masser Holmes?" he asked.

　　Holmes raised his pipe with a languid smile.

　　"Oh! it's you, is it?" said our visitor, coming with anunpleasant, stealthy step round the angle of the table. "See here,Masser Holmes, you keep your hands out of other folks' business. Leavefolks to manage their own affairs. Got that, Masser Holmes?""Keep on talking," said Holmes. "It's fine."

　　"Oh! it's fine, is it?" growled the savage. "It won't be so damnfine if I have to trim you up a bit. I've handled your kind beforenow, and they didn't look fine when I was through with them. Look atthat, Masser Holmes!"

　　He swung a huge knotted lump of a fist under my friend's nose.Holmes examined it closely with an air of great interest. "Were youborn so?" he asked. "Or did it come by degrees?"

　　It may have been the icy coolness of my friend, or it may havebeen the slight clatter which I made as I picked up the poker. Inany case, our visitor's manner became less flamboyant.

　　"Well, I've given you fair warnin'," said he. "I've a friendthat's interested out Harrow way- you know what I'm meaning- and hedon't intend to have no buttin' in by you. Got that? You ain't thelaw, and I ain't the law either, and if you come in I'll be on handalso. Don't you forget it."

　　"I've wanted to meet you for some time," said Holmes. "I won't askyou to sit down, for I don't like the smell of you, but aren't youSteve Dixie, the bruiser?"

　　"That's my name, Masser Holmes, and you'll get put through it forsure if you give me any lip."

　　"It is certainly the last thing you need," said Holmes, staring atour visitor's hideous mouth. "But it was the killing of youngPerkins outside the Holborn Bar- What! you're not going?"The negro had sprung back, and his face was leaden. "I won'tlisten to no such talk," said he. "What have I to do with this 'erePerkins, Masser Holmes? I was trainin' at the Bull Ring inBirmingham when this boy done gone get into trouble."

　　"Yes, you'll tell the magistrate about it, Steve," said Holmes."I've been watching you and Barney Stockdale-"

　　"So help me the Lord! Masser Holmes-"

　　"That's enough. Get out of it. I'll pick you up when I want you.""Good-mornin', Masser Holmes. I hope there ain't no hard feelin'sabout this 'ere visit?"

　　"There will be unless you tell me who sent you."

　　"Why, there ain't no secret about that, Masser Holmes. It was thatsame gen'l'man that you have just done gone mention."

　　"And who set him on to it?"

　　"S'elp me. I don't know, Masser Holmes. He just say, 'Steve, yougo see Mr. Holmes, and tell him his life ain't safe if he go downHarrow way.' That's the whole truth." Without waiting for anyfurther questioning, our visitor bolted out of the room almost asprecipitately as he had entered. Holmes knocked out the ashes of hispipe with a quiet chuckle.

　　"I am glad you were not forced to break his woolly head, Watson. Iobserved your manoeuvres with the poker. But he is really rather aharmless fellow, a great muscular, foolish, blustering baby, andeasily cowed, as you have seen. He is one of the Spencer John gang andhas taken part in some dirty work of late which I may clear up whenI have time. His immediate principal, Barney, is a more astute person.They specialize in assaults, intimidation, and the like. What I wantto know is, who is at the back of them on this particular occasion?""But why do they want to intimidate you?"

　　"It is this Harrow Weald case. It decides me to look into thematter, for if it is worth anyone's while to take so much trouble,there must be something in it."

　　"But what is it?"

　　"I was going to tell you when we had this comic interlude. Here isMrs. Maberley's note. If you care to come with me we will wire her andgo out at once."

　　DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES [I read]:

　　I have had a succession of strange incidents occur to me inconnection with this house, and I should much value your advice. Youwould find me at home any time to-morrow. The house is within ashort walk of the Weald Station. I believe that my late husband,Mortimer Maberley, was one of your early clients.

　　Yours faithfully,

　　MARY MABERLEY.

　　The address was "The Three Gables, Harrow Weald."

　　"So that's that!" said Holmes. "And now, if you can spare thetime, Watson, we will get upon our way."

　　A short railway journey, and a shorter drive, brought us to thehouse, a brick and timber villa, standing in its own acre ofundeveloped grassland. Three small projections above the upper windowsmade a feeble attempt to justify its name. Behind was a grove ofmelancholy, half-grown pines, and the whole aspect of the place waspoor and depressing. None the less, we found the house to be wellfurnished, and the lady who received us was a most engaging elderlyperson, who bore every mark of refinement and culture.

　　"I remember your husband well, madam," said Holmes, "though it issome years since he used my services in some trifling matter.""Probably you would be more familiar with the name of my sonDouglas."

　　Holmes looked at her with great interest.

　　"Dear me! Are you the mother of Douglas Maberley? I knew himslightly. But of course all London knew him. What a magnificentcreature he was! Where is he now?"

　　"Dead, Mr. Holmes, dead! He was attache at Rome, and he died thereof pneumonia last month."

　　"I am sorry. One could not connect death with such a man. I havenever known anyone so vitally alive, He lived intensely- every fibreof him!"

　　"Too intensely, Mr. Holmes. That was the ruin of him. You rememberhim as he was- debonair and splendid. You did not see the moody,morose, brooding creature into which he developed. His heart wasbroken. In a single month I seemed to see my gallant boy turn into aworn-out cynical man."

　　"A love affair- a woman?"

　　"Or a fiend. Well, it was not to talk of my poor lad that I askedyou to come, Mr. Holmes."

　　"Dr. Watson and I are at your service."

　　"'There have been some very strange happenings. I have been inthis house more than a year now, and as I wished to lead a retiredlife I have seen little of my neighbours. Three days ago I had acall from a man who said that he was a house agent. He said thatthis house would exactly suit a client of his, and that if I wouldpart with it money would be no object. It seemed to me very strange asthere are several empty houses on the market which appear to beequally eligible, but naturally I was interested in what he said. Itherefore named a price which was five hundred pounds more than Igave. He at once closed with the offer, but added that his clientdesired to buy the furniture as well and would I put a price uponit. Some of this furniture is from my old home, and it is, as you see,very good, so that I named a good round sum. To this also he at onceagreed. I had always wanted to travel, and the bargain was so good aone that it really seemed that I should be my own mistress for therest of my life.

　　"Yesterday the man arrived with the agreement all drawn out. LuckilyI showed it to Mr. Sutro, my lawyer, who lives in Harrow. He said tome, 'This is a very strange document. Are you aware that if you signit you could not legally take anything out of the house- not even yourown private possessions?' When the man came again in the evening Ipointed this out, and I said that I meant only to sell the furniture."'No, no, everything,' said he.

　　"'But my clothes? My jewels?'

　　"'Well, well, some concession might be made for your personaleffects. But nothing shall go out of the house unchecked. My client isa very liberal man, but he has his fads and his own way of doingthings. It is everything or nothing with him.'

　　"'Then it must be nothing,' said I. And there the matter was left,but the whole thing seemed to me to be so unusual that I thought-"Here we had a very extraordinary interruption.

　　Holmes raised his hand for silence. Then he strode across theroom, flung open the door, and dragged in a great gaunt woman whomhe had seized by the shoulder. She entered with ungainly struggle likesome huge awkward chicken, torn, squawking, out of its coop."Leave me alone! What are you a-doin' of?" she screeched."Why, Susan, what is this?"

　　"Well, ma'am, I was comin' in to ask if the visitors was stayin' forlunch when this man jumped out at me."

　　"I have been listening to her for the last five minutes, but did notwish to interrupt your most interesting narrative. Just a littlewheezy, Susan, are you not? You breathe too heavily for that kind ofwork."

　　Susan turned a sulky but amazed face upon her captor. "Who be you,anyhow, and what right have you a-pullin' me about like this?""It was merely that I wished to ask a question in your presence. Didyou, Mrs. Maberley, mention to anyone that you were going to writeto me and consult me?"

　　"No, Mr. Holmes, I did not."

　　"Who posted your letter?"

　　"Susan did."

　　"Exactly. Now, Susan, to whom was it that you wrote or sent amessage to say that your mistress was asking advice from me?""It's a lie. I sent no message."

　　"Now, Susan, wheezy people may not live long, you know. It's awicked thing to tell fibs. Whom did you tell?"

　　"Susan!" cried her mistress, "I believe you are a bad, treacherouswoman. I remember now that I saw you speaking to someone over thehedge."

　　"That was my own business," said the woman sullenly.

　　"Suppose I tell you that it was Barney Stockdale to whom you spoke?"said Holmes.

　　"Well, if you know, what do you want to ask for?"

　　"I was not sure, but I know now. Well now, Susan, it will be worthten pounds to you if you will tell me who is at the back of Barney.""Someone that could lay down a thousand pounds for every ten youhave in the world."

　　"So, a rich man? No; you smiled- a rich woman. Now we have got sofar, you may as well give the name and earn the tenner.""I'll see you in hell first."

　　"Oh, Susan! Language!"

　　"I am clearing out of here. I've had enough of you all. I'll sendfor my box to-morrow." She flounced for the door.

　　"Good-bye, Susan. Paregoric is the stuff.... Now," he continued,turning suddenly from lively to severe when the door had closed behindthe flushed and angry woman, "this gang means business. Look how closethey play the game. Your letter to me had the 10 P.M. postmark. Andyet Susan passes the word to Barney. Barney has time to go to hisemployer and get instructions; he or she- I incline to the latter fromSusan's grin when she thought I had blundered- forms a plan. BlackSteve is called in, and I am warned off by eleven o'clock nextmorning. That's quick work, you know."

　　"But what do they want?"

　　"Yes, that's the question. Who had the house before you?""A retired sea captain called Ferguson."

　　"Anything remarkable about him?"

　　"Not that ever I heard of."

　　"I was wondering whether he could have buried something. Ofcourse, when people bury treasure nowadays they do it in thePost-Office bank. But there are always some lunatics about. It wouldbe a dull world without them. At first I thought of some buriedvaluable. But why, in that case, should they want your furniture?You don't happen to have a Raphael or a first folio Shakespearewithout knowing it?"

　　"No, I don't think I have anything rarer than a Crown Derbytea-set."

　　"That would hardly justify all this mystery. Besides, why shouldthey not openly state what they want? If they covet your tea-set, theycan surely offer a price for it without buying you out, lock, stock,and barrel. No, as I read it, there is something which you do not knowthat you have, and which you would not give up if you did know.""That is how I read it," said I.

　　"Dr. Watson agrees, so that settles it."

　　"Well, Mr. Holmes, what can it be?"

　　"Let us see whether by this purely mental analysis we can get itto a finer point. You have been in this house a year."

　　"Nearly two."

　　"All the better. During this long period no one wants anythingfrom you. Now suddenly within three or four days you have urgentdemands. What would you gather from that?"

　　"It can only mean," said I, "that the object, whatever it may be,has only just come into the house."

　　"Settled once again," said Holmes. "Now, Mrs. Maberley, has anyobject just arrived?"

　　"No, I have bought nothing new this year."

　　"Indeed! That is very remarkable. Well, I think we had best letmatters develop a little further until we have clearer data. Is thatlawyer of yours a capable man?"

　　"Mr. Sutro is most capable."

　　"Have you another maid, or was the fair Susan, who has just bangedyour front door, alone?"

　　"I have a young girl."

　　"Try and get Sutro to spend a night or two in the house. You mightpossibly want protection."

　　"Against whom?"

　　"Who knows? The matter is certainly obscure. If I can't find whatthey are after, I must approach the matter from the other end andtry to get at the principal. Did this house-agent man give anyaddress?"

　　"Simply his card and occupation. Haines-Johnson, Auctioneer andValuer."

　　"I don't think we shall find him in the directory. Honest businessmen don't conceal their place of business. Well, you will let meknow any fresh development. I have taken up your case, and you mayrely upon it that I shall see it through."

　　As we passed through the hall Holmes's eyes, which missed nothing,lighted upon several trunks and cases which were piled in a corner.The labels shone out upon them.

　　"'Milano.' 'Lucerne.' These are from Italy."

　　"They are poor Douglas's things."

　　"You have not unbacked them? How long have you had them?""They arrived last week."

　　"But you said- why, surely this might be the missing link. How do weknow that there is not something of value there?"

　　"There could not possibly be, Mr. Holmes. Poor Douglas had onlyhis pay and a small annuity. What could he have of value?"Holmes was lost in thought.

　　"Delay no longer, Mrs. Maberley," he said at last. "Have thesethings taken upstairs to your bedroom. Examine them as soon aspossible and see what they contain. I will come to-morrow and hearyour report."

　　It was quite evident that The Three Gables was under very closesurveillance, for as we came round the high hedge at the end of thelane there was the negro prize-fighter standing in the shadow. We cameon him quite suddenly, and a grim and menacing figure he looked inthat lonely place. Holmes clapped his hand to his pocket."Lookin' for your gun, Masser Holmes?"

　　"No, for my scent-bottle, Steve."

　　"You are funny, Masser Holmes, ain't you?"

　　"It won't be funny for you, Steve, if I get after you. I gave youfair warning this morning."

　　"Well, Masser Holmes, I done gone think over what you said, and Idon't want no more talk about that affair of Masser Perkins. S'poseI can help you, Masser Holmes, I will."

　　"Well, then, tell me who is behind you on this job."

　　"So help me the Lord! Masser Holmes, I told you the truth before.I don't know. My boss Barney gives me orders and that's all.""Well, just bear in mind, Steve, that the lady in that house, andeverything under that roof, is under my protection. Don't forget it.""All right, Masser Holmes. I'll remember."

　　"I've got him thoroughly frightened for his own skin, Watson,"Holmes remarked as we walked on. "I think he would double-cross hisemployer if he knew who he was. It was lucky I had some knowledge ofthe Spencer John crowd, and that Steve was one of them. Now, Watson,this is a case for Langdale Pike, and I am going to see him now.When I get back I may be clearer in the matter."

　　I saw no more of Holmes during the day, but I could well imagine howhe spent it, for Langdale Pike was his human book of reference uponall matters of social scandal. This strange, languid creature spenthis waking hours in the bow window of a St. James's Street club andwas the receiving-station as well as the transmitter for all thegossip of the metropolis. He made, it was said, a four-figure incomeby the paragraphs which he contributed every week to the garbagepapers which cater to an inquisitive public. If ever, far down inthe turbid depths of London life, there was some strange swirl oreddy, it was marked with automatic exactness by this human dial uponthe surface. Holmes discreetly helped Langdale to knowledge, and onoccasion was helped in turn.

　　When I met my friend in his room early next morning, I was consciousfrom his bearing that all was well, but none the less a mostunpleasant surprise was awaiting us. It took the shape of thefollowing telegram:

　　Please come out at once. Client's house burgled in the night. Policein possession.

　　SUTRO.

　　Holmes whistled. "The drama has come to a crisis, and quicker than Ihad expected. There is a great driving-power at the back of thisbusiness, Watson, which does not surprise me after what I haveheard. This Sutro, of course, is her lawyer. I made a mistake, I fear,in not asking you to spend the night on guard. This fellow has clearlyproved a broken reed. Well, there is nothing for it but anotherjourney to Harrow Weald."

　　We found The Three Gables a very different establishment to theorderly household of the previous day. A small group of idlers hadassembled at the garden gate, while a couple of constables wereexamining the windows and the geranium beds. Within we met a grayold gentleman, who introduced himself as the lawyer, together with abustling, rubicund inspector, who greeted Holmes as an old friend."Well, Mr. Holmes, no chance for you in this case, I'm afraid.Just a common, ordinary burglary, and well within the capacity ofthe poor old police. No experts need apply."

　　"I am sure the case is in very good hands," said Holmes. "Merelyburglary, you say?"

　　"Quite so. We know pretty well who the men are and where to findthat gang of Barney Stockdale, with the big nigger in it- they've beenseen about here."

　　"Excellent! What did they get?"

　　"Well, they don't seem to have got much. Mrs. Maberley waschloroformed and the house was- Ah! here is the lady herself."Our friend of yesterday, looking very pale and ill, had enteredthe room, leaning upon a little maidservant.

　　"You gave me good advice, Mr. Holmes," said she, smiling ruefully."Alas, I did not take it! I did not wish to trouble Mr. Sutro, andso I was unprotected."

　　"I only heard of it this morning," the lawyer explained."Mr. Holmes advised me to have some friend in the house. I neglectedhis advice, and I have paid for it."

　　"You look wretchedly ill," said Holmes. "Perhaps you are hardlyequal to telling me what occurred."

　　"It is all here," said the inspector, tapping a bulky notebook."Still, if the lady is not too exhausted-"

　　"There is really so little to tell. I have no doubt that wickedSusan had planned an entrance for them. They must have known the houseto an inch. I was conscious for a moment of the chloroform rag whichwas thrust over my mouth, but I have no notion how long I may havebeen senseless. When I woke, one man was at the bedside and anotherwas rising with a bundle in his hand from among my son's baggage,which was partially opened and littered over the floor. Before hecould get away I sprang up and seized him."

　　"You took a big risk," said the inspector.

　　"I clung to him, but he shook me off, and the other may havestruck me, for I can remember no more. Mary the maid heard the noiseand began screaming out of the window. That brought the police, butthe rascals had got away."

　　"What did they take?"

　　"Well, I don't think there is anything of value missing, I am surethere was nothing in my son's trunks."

　　"Did the men leave no clue?"

　　"There was one sheet of paper which I may have torn from the manthat I grasped. It was lying all crumpled on the floor. It is in myson's handwriting."

　　"Which means that it is not of much use," said the inspector. "Nowif it had been in the burglar's-"

　　"Exactly," said Holmes. "What rugged common sense! None the less,I should be curious to see it."

　　The inspector drew a folded sheet of foolscap from his pocketbook."I never pass anything, however trifling," said he with somepomposity. "That is my advice to you, Mr. Holmes. In twenty-fiveyears' experience I have learned my lesson. There is always the chanceof finger-marks or something."

　　Holmes inspected the sheet of paper.

　　"What do you make of it, Inspector?"

　　"Seems to be the end of some queer novel, so far as I can see.""It may certainly prove to be the end of a queer tale," said Holmes."You have noticed the number on the top of the page. It is two hundredand forty-five. Where are the odd two hundred and forty-four pages?""Well, I suppose the burglars got those. Much good may it do them!""It seems a queer thing to break into a house in order to steal suchpapers as that. Does it suggest anything to you, Inspector?""Yes, sir, it suggests that in their hurry the rascals justgrabbed at what came first to hand. I wish them joy of what they got.""Why should they go to my son's things"' asked Mrs. Maberley."Well, they found nothing valuable downstairs, so they tried theirluck upstairs. That is how I read it. What do you make of it, Mr.Holmes?"

　　"I must think it over, Inspector. Come to the window, Watson." Then,as we stood together, he read over the fragment of paper. It beganin the middle of a sentence and ran like this:

　　"...face bled considerably from the cuts and blows, But it wasnothing to the bleeding of his heart as he saw that lovely face, theface for which he had been prepared to sacrifice his very life,looking out at his agony and humiliation, She smiled- yes, byHeaven! she smiled, like the heartless fiend she was, as he lookedup at her. It was at that moment that love died and hate was born. Manmust live for something. If it is not for your embrace, my lady,then it shall surely be for your undoing and my complete revenge.""Queer grammar!" said Holmes with a smile as he handed the paperback to the inspector. "Did you notice how the 'he' suddenly changedto 'my'? The writer was so carried away by his own story that heimagined himself at the supreme moment to be the hero.

　　"It seemed mighty poor stuff," said the inspector as he replacedit in his book. "What! are you off, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"I don't think there is anything more for me to do now that the caseis in such capable hands. By the way, Mrs. Maberley, did you say youwished to travel?"

　　"It has always been my dream, Mr. Holmes."

　　"Where would you like to go- Cairo, Madeira, the Riviera?""Oh, if I had the money I would go round the world."

　　"Quite so. Round the world. Well, good-morning. I may drop you aline in the evening." As we passed the window I caught a glimpse ofthe inspector's smile and shake of the head. "These clever fellowshave always a touch of madness." That was what I read in theinspector's smile.

　　"Now, Watson, we are at the last lap of our little journey," saidHolmes when we were back in the roar of central London once more. "Ithink we had best clear the matter up at once, and it would be wellthat you should come with me, for it is safer to have a witness whenyou are dealing with such a lady as Isadora Klein."

　　We had taken a cab and were speeding to some address in GrosvenorSquare. Holmes had been sunk in thought, but he roused himselfsuddenly.

　　"By the way, Watson, I suppose you see it all clearly?""No, I can't say that I do. I only gather that we are going to seethe lady who is behind all this mischief."

　　"Exactly! But does the name Isadora Klein convey nothing to you? Shewas, of course, the celebrated beauty. There was never a woman totouch her. She is pure Spanish, the real blood of the masterfulConquistadors, and her people have been leaders in Pernambuco forgenerations. She married the aged German sugar king, Klein, andpresently found herself the richest as well as the most lovely widowupon earth. Then there was an interval of adventure when she pleasedher own tastes. She had several lovers, and Douglas Maberley, one ofthe most striking men in London, was one of them. It was by allaccounts more than an adventure with him. He was not a societybutterfly but a strong, proud man who gave and expected all. But sheis the 'belle dame sans merci' of fiction. When her caprice issatisfied the matter is ended, and if the other party in the mattercan't take her word for it she knows how to bring it home to him.""Then that was his own story-"

　　"Ah! you are piecing it together now. I hear that she is about tomarry the young Duke of Lomond, who might almost be her son. HisGrace's ma might overlook the age, but a big scandal would be adifferent matter, so it is imperative- Ah! here we are."It was one of the finest corner-houses of the West End. Amachine-like footman took up our cards and returned with word that thelady was not at home. "Then we shall wait until she is," said Holmescheerfully.

　　The machine broke down.

　　"Not at home means not at home to you," said the footman."Good," Holmes answered. "That means that we shall not have to wait.Kindly give this note to your mistress."

　　He scribbled three or four words upon a sheet of his notebook,folded it, and handed it to the man.

　　"What did you say, Holmes?" I asked.

　　"I simply wrote: 'Shall it be the police, then?' I think that shouldpass us in."

　　It did- with amazing celerity. A minute later we were in anArabian Nights drawing-room, vast and wonderful, in a half gloom,picked out with an occasional pink electric light. The lady hadcome, I felt, to that time of life when even the proudest beauty findsthe half light more welcome. She rose from a settee as we entered:tall, queenly, a perfect figure, a lovely mask-like face, with twowonderful Spanish eyes which looked murder at us both.

　　"What is this intrusion- and this insulting message?" she asked,holding up the slip of paper.

　　"I need not explain, madame. I have too much respect for yourintelligence to do so- though I confess that intelligence has beensurprisingly at fault of late."

　　"How so, sir?"

　　"By supposing that your hired bullies could frighten me from mywork. Surely no man would take up my profession if it were not thatdanger attracts him. It was you, then, who forced me to examine thecase of young Maberley."

　　"I have no idea what you are talking about. What have I to do withhired bullies?"

　　Holmes turned away wearily.

　　"Yes, I have underrated your intelligence. Well, good-afternoon!""Stop! Where are you going?"

　　"To Scotland Yard."

　　We had not got halfway to the door before she had overtaken us andwas holding his arm. She had turned in a moment from steel to velvet."Come and sit down, gentlemen. Let us talk this matter over. Ifeel that I may be frank with you, Mr. Holmes. You have the feelingsof a gentleman. How quick a woman's instinct is to find it out. I willtreat you as a friend."

　　"I cannot promise to reciprocate, madame. I am not the law, but Irepresent justice so far as my feeble powers go. I am ready to listen,and then I will tell you how I will act."

　　"No doubt it was foolish of me to threaten a brave man likeyourself."

　　"What was really foolish, madame, is that you have placed yourselfin the power of a band of rascals who may blackmail or give you away.""No, no! I am not so simple. Since I have promised to be frank, Imay say that no one, save Barney Stockdale and Susan, his wife, havethe least idea who their employer is. As to them, well, it is notthe first-" She smiled and nodded with a charming coquettish intimacy."I see. You've tested them before."

　　"They are good hounds who run silent."

　　"Such hounds have a way sooner or later of biting the hand thatfeeds them. They will be arrested for this burglary. The police arealready after them."

　　"They will take what comes to them. That is what they are paidfor. I shall not appear in the matter."

　　"Unless I bring you into it."

　　"No, no, you would not. You are a gentleman. It is a woman'ssecret."

　　"In the first place, you must give back this manuscript."She broke into a ripple of laughter and walked to the fireplace.There was a calcined mass which she broke up with the poker. "ShallI give this back?" she asked. So roguish and exquisite did she look asshe stood before us with a challenging smile, that I felt of allHolmes's criminals this was the one whom he would find it hardest toface. However, he was immune from sentiment.

　　"That seals your fate," he said coldly. "You are very prompt in youractions, madame, but you have overdone it on this occasion."She threw the poker down with a clatter.

　　"How hard you are!" she cried. "May I tell you the whole story?""I fancy I could tell it to you."

　　"But you must look at it with my eyes, Mr. Holmes. You mustrealize it from the point of view of a woman who sees all her life'sambition about to be ruined at the last moment. Is such a woman tobe blamed if she protects herself?"

　　"The original sin was yours."

　　"Yes, yes! I admit it. He was a dear boy, Douglas, but it so chancedthat he could not fit into my plans. He wanted marriage- marriage,Mr Holmes- with a penniless commoner. Nothing less would serve him.Then he became pertinacious. Because I had given he seemed to thinkthat I still must give, and to him only. It was intolerable. At last Ihad to make him realize it."

　　"By hiring ruffians to beat him under your own window.""You do indeed seem to know everything. Well, it is true. Barney andthe boys drove him away, and were, I admit, a little rough in doingso. But what did he do then? Could I have believed that a gentlemanwould do such an act? He wrote a book in which he described his ownstory. I, of course, was the wolf; he the lamb. It was all there,under different names, of course; but who in all London would havefailed to recognize it? What do you say to that, Mr. Holmes?""Well, he was within his rights."

　　"It was as if the air of Italy had got into his blood and broughtwith it the old cruel Italian spirit. He wrote to me and sent me acopy of his book that I might have the torture of anticipation.There were two copies, he said- one for me, one for his publisher.""How did you know the publisher's had not reached him?""I knew who his publisher was. It is not his only novel, you know. Ifound out that he had not heard from Italy. Then came Douglas's suddendeath. So long as that other manuscript was in the world there wasno safety for me. Of course, it must be among his effects, and thesewould be returned to his mother. I set the gang at work. One of themgot into the house as servant. I wanted to do the thing honestly. Ireally and truly did. I was ready to buy the house and everything init. I offered any price she cared to ask. I only tried the other waywhen everything else had failed. Now, Mr. Holmes, granting that Iwas too hard on Douglas- and, God knows, I am sorry for it!- what elsecould I do with my whole future at stake?"

　　Sherlock Holmes shrugged his shoulders.

　　"Well, well," said he, "I suppose I shall have to compound afelony as usual. How much does it cost to go round the world infirst-class style?"

　　The lady stared in amazement.

　　"Could it be done on five thousand pounds?"

　　"Well, I should think so, indeed!"

　　"Very good. I think you will sign me a check for that, and I willsee that it comes to Mrs. Maberley. You owe her a little change ofair. Meantime, lady"- he wagged a cautionary forefinger- "have a care!Have a care! You can't play with edged tools forever without cuttingthose dainty hands."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1925

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE THREE GARRIDEBS

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　It may have been a comedy, or it may have been a tragedy. It costone man his reason, it cost me a blood-letting, and it cost yetanother man the penalties of the law. Yet there was certainly anelement of comedy. Well, you shall judge for yourselves.I remember the date very well, for it was in the same month thatHolmes refused a knighthood for services which may perhaps some day bedescribed. I only refer to the matter in passing, for in my positionof partner and confidant I am obliged to be particularly careful toavoid any indiscretion. I repeat, however, that this enables me to fixthe date, which was the latter end of June, 1902, shortly after theconclusion of the South African War. Holmes had spent several daysin bed, as was his habit from time to time, but he emerged thatmorning with a long foolscap document in his hand and a twinkle ofamusement in his austere gray eyes.

　　"There is a chance for you to make some money, friend Watson,"said he. "Have you ever heard the name of Garrideb?"

　　I admitted that I had not.

　　"Well, if you can lay your hand upon a Garrideb, there's money init."

　　"Why?"

　　"Ah, that's a long story- rather a whimsical one, too. I don't thinkin all our explorations of human complexities we have ever come uponanything more singular. The fellow will be here presently forcross-examination, so I won't open the matter up till he comes. But,meanwhile, that's the name we want."

　　The telephone directory lay on the table beside me, and I turnedover the pages in a rather hopeless quest. But to my amazement therewas this strange name in its due place. I gave a cry of triumph."Here you are, Holmes! Here it is!"

　　Holmes took the book from my hand.

　　"'Garrideb, N.,'" he read, 136 Little Ryder Street, W.' Sorry todisappoint you, my dear Watson, but this is the man himself. That isthe address upon his letter. We want another to match him."Mrs. Hudson had come in with a card upon a tray. I took it up andglanced at it.

　　"Why, here it is!" I cried in amazement. "This is a differentinitial. John Garrideb, Counsellor at Law, Moorville, Kansas, U.S.A."Holmes smiled as he looked at the card. "I am afraid you must makeyet another effort, Watson," said he. "This gentleman is also in theplot already, though I certainly did not expect to see him thismorning. However, he is in a position to tell us a good deal which Iwant to know."

　　A moment later he was in the room. Mr. John Garrideb, Counsellorat Law, was a short, powerful man with the round, fresh,clean-shaven face characteristic of so many American men of affairs.The general effect was chubby and rather childlike, so that onereceived the impression of quite a young man with a broad set smileupon his face. His eyes, however, were arresting. Seldom in anyhuman head have I seen a pair which bespoke a more intense inwardlife, so bright were they, so alert, so responsive to every changeof thought. His accent was American, but was not accompanied by anyeccentricity of speech.

　　"Mr. Holmes?" he asked, glancing from one to the other. "Ah, yes!Your pictures are not unlike you, sir, if I may say so. I believeyou have had a letter from my namesake, Mr. Nathan Garrideb, haveyou not?"

　　"Pray sit down," said Sherlock Holmes. "We shall, I fancy, have agood deal to discuss." He took up his sheets of foolscap. "You are, ofcourse, the Mr. John Garrideb mentioned in this document. But surelyyou have been in England some time?"

　　"Why do you say that, Mr. Holmes?" I seemed to read sudden suspicionin those expressive eyes.

　　"Your whole outfit is English."

　　Mr. Garrideb forced a laugh. "I've read of your tricks, Mr.Holmes, but I never thought I would be the subject of them. Where doyou read that?"

　　"The shoulder cut of your coat, the toes of your boots- could anyonedoubt it?"

　　"Well, well, I had no idea I was so obvious a Britisher. Butbusiness brought me over where some time ago, and so, as you say, myoutfit is nearly all London. However, I guess your time is of value,and we did not meet to talk about the cut of my socks. What aboutgetting down to that paper you hold in your hand?"

　　Holmes had in some way ruffled our visitor, whose chubby face hadassumed a far less amiable expression.

　　"Patience! Patience, Mr. Garrideb!" said my friend in a soothingvoice. "Dr. Watson would tell you that these little digressions ofmine sometimes prove in the end to have some bearing on the matter.But why did Mr. Nathan Garrideb not come with you?"

　　"Why did he ever drag you into it at all?" asked our visitor witha sudden outflame of anger. "What in thunder had you to do with it?Here was a bit of professional business between two gentlemen, and oneof them must needs call in a detective! I saw him this morning, and hetold me this fool-trick he had played me, and that's why I am here.But I feel bad about it, all the same."

　　"There was no reflection upon you, Mr. Garrideb. It was simplyzeal upon his part to gain your end- an end which is, I understand,equally vital for both of you. He knew that I had means of gettinginformation, and, therefore, it was very natural that he shouldapply to me."

　　Our visitor's angry face gradually cleared.

　　"Well, that puts it different," said he. "When I went to see himthis morning and he told me he had sent to a detective, I just askedfor your address and came right away. I don't want police butting intoa private matter. But if you are content just to help us find the man,there can be no harm in that."

　　"Well, that is just how it stands," said Holmes. "And now, sir,since you are here, we had best have a clear account from your ownlips. My friend here knows nothing of the details."

　　Mr. Garrideb surveyed me with not too friendly a gaze.

　　"Need he know?" be asked.

　　"We usually work together."

　　"Well, there's no reason it should be kept a secret. I'll give youthe facts as short as I can make them. If you came from Kansas I wouldnot need to explain to you who Alexander Hamilton Garrideb was. Hemade his money in real estate, and afterwards in the wheat pit atChicago, but he spent it in buying up as much land as would make oneof your counties, lying along the Arkansas River, west of FortDodge. It's grazing-land and lumber-land and arable-land andmineralized land, and just every sort of land that brings dollars tothe man that owns it.

　　He had no kith nor kin- or, if he had, I never heard of it. But hetook a kind of pride in the queerness of his name. That was whatbrought us together. I was in the law at Topeka, and one day I had avisit from the old man, and he was tickled to death to meet anotherman with his own name. It was his pet fad, and he was dead set to findout if there were any more Garridebs in the world. 'Find meanother!' said he. I told him I was a busy man and could not spendmy life hiking round the world in search of Garridebs. 'None theless,' said he, 'that is just what you will do if things pan out asI planned them.' I thought he was joking, but there was a powerful lotof meaning in the words, as I was soon to discover.

　　"For he died within a year of saying them, and he left a will behindhim. It was the queerest will that has ever been filed in the State ofKansas. His property was divided into three parts, and I was to haveone on condition that I found two Garridebs who would share theremainder. It's five million dollars for each if it is a cent, butwe can't lay a finger on it until we all three stand in a row."It was so big a chance that I just let my legal practice slideand I set forth looking for Garridebs. There is not one in theUnited States. I went through it, sir, with a fine-toothed comb andnever a Garrideb could I catch. Then I tried the old country. Sureenough there was the name in the London telephone directory. I wentafter him two days ago and explained the whole matter to him. But heis a lone man, like myself, with some women relations, but no men.It says three adult men in the will. So you see we still have avacancy, and if you can help to fill it we will be very ready to payyour charges."

　　"Well, Watson," said Holmes with a smile, "I said it was ratherwhimsical, did I not? I should have thought, sir, that your obviousway was to advertise in the agony columns of the papers.""I have done that, Mr. Holmes. No replies."

　　"Dear me! Well, it is certainly a most curious little problem. I maytake a glance at it in my leisure. By the way, it is curious thatyou should have come from Topeka. I used to have a correspondent- heis dead now- old Dr. Lysander Starr, who was mayor in 1890.""Good old Dr. Starr!" said our visitor. "His name is still honoured.Well, Mr. Holmes, I suppose all we can do is to report to you andlet you know how we progress. I reckon you will hear within a day ortwo." With this assurance our American bowed and departed.Holmes had lit his pipe, and he sat for some time with a curioussmile upon his face.

　　"Well?" I asked at last.

　　"I a wondering, Watson- just wondering!"

　　"At what?"

　　Holmes took his pipe from his lips.

　　"I was wondering, Watson, what on earth could be the object ofthis man in telling us such a rigmarole of lies. I nearly asked himso- for there are times when a brutal frontal attack is the bestpolicy- but I judged it better to let him think he had fooled us. Hereis a man with an English coat frayed at the elbow and trousersbagged at the knee with a year's wear, and yet by this document and byhis own account he is a provincial American lately landed in London.There have, been no advertisements in the agony columns. You know thatI miss nothing there. They are my favourite covert for putting up abird, and I would never have overlooked such a cock pheasant asthat. I never knew a Dr. Lysander Starr, of Topeka. Touch him whereyou would he was false. I think the fellow is really an American,but he has worn his accent smooth with years of London. What is hisgame, then, and what motive lies behind this preposterous search forGarridebs? It's worth our attention, for, granting that the man is arascal, he is certainly a complex and ingenious one. We must nowfind out if our other correspondent is a fraud also. Just ring him up,Watson."

　　I did so, and heard a thin, quavering voice at the other end ofthe line.

　　"Yes, yes, I am Mr. Nathan Garrideb. Is Mr. Holmes there? I shouldvery much like to have a word with Mr. Holmes."

　　My friend took the instrument and I heard the usual syncopateddialogue.

　　"Yes, he has been here. I understand that you don't know him.... Howlong?... Only two days!... Yes, yes, of course, it is a mostcaptivating prospect. Will you be at home this evening? I suppose yournamesake will not be there?... Very good, we will come then, for Iwould rather have a chat without him.... Dr. Watson will come withme.... I understand from your note that you did not go out often....Well, we shall be round about six. You need not mention it to theAmerican lawyer.... Very good. Good-bye!"

　　It was twilight of a lovely spring evening, and even Little RyderStreet, one of the smaller offshoots from the Edgware Road, within astone-cast of old Tyburn Tree of evil memory, looked golden andwonderful in the slanting rays of the setting sun. The particularhouse to which we were directed was a large, old-fashioned, EarlyGeorgian edifice, with a flat brick face broken only by two deep baywindows on the ground floor. It was on this ground floor that ourclient lived, and, indeed, the low windows proved to be the front ofthe huge room in which he spent his waking hours. Holmes pointed as wepassed to the small brass plate which bore the curious name."Up some years, Watson," he remarked, indicating its discolouredsurface. "It's his real name, anyhow, and that is something to note."The house had a common stair, and there were a number of namespainted in the hall, some indicating offices and some privatechambers. It was not a collection of residential flats, but rather theabode of Bohemian bachelors. Our client opened the door for us himselfand apologized by saying that the woman in charge left at fouro'clock. Mr. Nathan Garrideb proved to be a very tall,

　　loose-jointed, round-backed person, gaunt and bald, some sixty-oddyears of age. He had a cadaverous face, with the dull dead skin of aman to whom exercise was unknown. Large round spectacles and a smallprojecting goat's beard combined with his stooping attitude to givehim an expression of peering curiosity. The general effect, however,was amiable, though eccentric.

　　The room was as curious as its occupant. It looked like a smallmuseum. It was both broad and deep, with cupboards and cabinets allround, crowded with specimens, geological and anatomical. Cases ofbutterflies and moths flanked each side of the entrance. A large tablein the centre was littered with all sorts of debris, while the tallbrass tube of a powerful microscope bristled up among them. As Iglanced round I was surprised at the universality of the man'sinterests. Here was a case of ancient coins. There was a cabinet offlint instruments. Behind his central table was a large cupboard offossil bones. Above was a line of plaster skulls with such names as"Neanderthal," "Heidelberg," "Cro-Magnon" printed beneath them. It wasclear that he was a student of many subjects. As he stood in frontof us now, he held a piece of chamois leather in his right hand withwhich he was polishing a coin.

　　"Syracusan- of the best period," he explained, bolding it up."They degenerated greatly towards the end. At their best I hold themsupreme, though some prefer the Alexandrian school. You will find achair here, Mr. Holmes. Pray allow me to clear these bones. And you,sir- ah, yes, Dr. Watson- if you would have the goodness to put thejapanese vase to one side. You see round me my little interests inlife. My doctor lectures me about never going out, but why should I goout when I have so much to hold me here? I can assure you that theadequate cataloguing of one of those cabinets would take me three goodmonths."

　　Holmes looked round him with curiosity.

　　"But do you tell me that you never go out?" he said.

　　"Now and again I drive down to Sotheby's or Christie's. OtherwiseI very seldom leave my room. I am not too strong, and my researchesare very absorbing. But you can imagine, Mr. Holmes, what a terrificshock- pleasant but terrific- it was for me when I heard of thisunparalleled good fortune. It only needs one more Garrideb to completethe matter, and surely we can find one. I had a brother, but hi isdead, and female relatives are disqualified. But there must surelybe others in the world. I had heard that you handled strange cases,and that was why I sent to you. Of course, this American gentlemanis quite right, and I should have taken his advice first, but Iacted for the best."

　　"I think you acted very wisely indeed," said Holmes. "But are youreally anxious to acquire an estate in America?"

　　"Certainly not, sir. Nothing would induce me to leave my collection.But this gentleman has assured me that he will buy me out as soon aswe have established our claim. Five million dollars was the sum named.There are a dozen specimens in the market at the present momentwhich fill gaps in my collection, and which I am unable to purchasefor want of a few hundred pounds. Just think what I could do with fivemillion dollars. Why, I have the nucleus of a national collection. Ishall be the Hans Sloane of my age."

　　His eyes gleamed behind his great spectacles. It was very clear thatno pains would be spared by Mr. Nathan Garrideb in finding a namesake."I merely called to make your acquaintance, and there is no reasonwhy I should interrupt your studies," said Holmes. "I prefer toestablish personal touch with those with whom I do business. There arefew questions I need ask, for I have your very clear narrative in mypocket, and I filled up the blanks when this American gentlemancalled. I understand that up to this week you were unaware of hisexistence."

　　"That is so. He called last Tuesday."

　　"Did he tell you of our interview to-day?"

　　"Yes, he came straight back to me. He had been very angry.""Why should he be angry?"

　　"He seemed to think it was some reflection on his honour. But he wasquite cheerful again when he returned."

　　"Did he suggest any course of action?"

　　"No, sir, he did not."

　　"Has he had, or asked for, any money from you?"

　　"No, sir, never!"

　　"You see no possible object he has in view?"

　　"None, except what he states."

　　"Did you tell him of our telephone appointment?"

　　"Yes, sir, I did."

　　Holmes was lost in thought. I could see that he was puzzled."Have you any articles of great value in your collection?""No, sir. I am not a rich man. It is a good collection, but not avery valuable one."

　　"You have no fear of burglars?"

　　"Not the least."

　　"How long have you been in these rooms?"

　　"Nearly five years."

　　Holmes's cross-examination was interrupted by an imperative knockingat the door. No sooner had our client unlatched it than the Americanlawyer burst excitedly into the room.

　　"Here you are!" he cried, waving a paper over his head. "I thought Ishould be in time to get you. Mr. Nathan Garrideb, my congratulations!You are a rich man, sir. Our business is happily finished and all iswell. As to you, Mr. Holmes, we can only say we are sorry if we havegiven you any useless trouble."

　　He handed over the paper to our client, who stood staring at amarked advertisement. Holmes and I leaned forward and read it over hisshoulder. This is how it ran:

　　HOWARD GARRIDEB

　　Constructor of Agricultural Machinery

　　Binders, reapers, steam and hand plows, drills, harrows, farmers'carts, buckboards, and all other appliances.

　　Estimates for Artesian Wells

　　Apply Grosvenor Buildings, Aston

　　"Glorious!" gasped our host. "That makes our third man.""I had opened up inquiries in Birmingham," said the American, "andmy agent there has sent me this advertisement from a local paper. Wemust bustle and put the thing through. I have written to this manand told him that you will see him in his office to-morrow afternoonat four o'clock."

　　"You want me to see him?"

　　"What do you say, Mr. Holmes? Don't you think it would be wiser?Here am I, a wandering American with a wonderful tale. Why should hebelieve what I tell him? But you are a Britisher with solidreferences, and he is bound to take notice of what you say. I would gowith you if you wished, but I have a very busy day to-morrow, and Icould always follow you if you are in any trouble."

　　"Well, I have not made such a journey for years."

　　"It is nothing, Mr. Garrideb. I have figured out our connections.You leave at twelve and should be there soon after two. Then you canbe back the same night. All you have to do is to see this man, explainthe matter, and get an affidavit of his existence. By the Lord!" headded hotly, "considering I've come all the way from the centre ofAmerica, it is surely little enough if you go a hundred miles in orderto put this matter through."

　　"Quite so," said Holmes. "I think what this gentleman says is verytrue."

　　Mr. Nathan Garrideb shrugged his shoulders with a disconsolateair. "Well, if you insist I shall go," said he. "It is certainlyhard for me to refuse you anything, considering the glory of hope thatyou have brought into my life."

　　"Then that is agreed," said Holmes, "and no doubt you will let mehave a report as soon as you can."

　　"I'll see to that," said the American. "Well," he added, lookingat his watch, "I'll have to get on. I'll call to-morrow, Mr. Nathan,and see you off to Birmingham. Coming my way, Mr. Holmes? Well,then, good-bye, and we may have good news for you to-morrow night."I noticed that my friend's face cleared when the American left theroom, and the look of thoughtful perplexity had vanished."I wish I could look over your collection, Mr. Garrideb," said he."In my profession all sorts of odd knowledge comes useful, and thisroom of yours is a storehouse of it."

　　Our client shone with pleasure and his eyes gleamed from behindhis big glasses.

　　"I had always heard, sir, that you were a very intelligent man,"said he. "I could take you round now if you have the time.""Unfortunately, I have not. But these specimens are so well labelledand classified that they hardly need your personal explanation. If Ishould be able to look in to-morrow, I presume that there would beno objection to my glancing over them?"

　　"None at all. You are most welcome. The place will, of course, heshut up, but Mrs. Saunders is in the basement up to four o'clock andwould let you in with her key."

　　"Well, I happen to be clear to-morrow afternoon. If you would saya word to Mrs. Saunders it would be quite in order. By the way, who isyour house-agent?"

　　Our client was amazed at the sudden question.

　　"Holloway and Steele, in the Edgware Road. But why?"

　　"I am a bit of an archaeologist myself when it comes to houses,"said Holmes, laughing. "I was wondering if this was Queen Anne orGeorgian."

　　"Georgian, beyond doubt."

　　"Really. I should have thought a little earlier. However, it iseasily ascertained. Well, good-bye, Mr. Garrideb, and may you haveevery success in your Birmingham journey."

　　The house-agent's was close by, but we found that it was closedfor the day, so we made our way back to Baker Street. It was nottill after dinner that Holmes reverted to the subject.

　　"Our little problem draws to a close," said he. "No doubt you haveoutlined the solution in your own mind."

　　"I can make neither head nor tail of it."

　　"The head is surely clear enough and the tail we should seeto-morrow. Did you notice nothing curious about that advertisement?""I saw that the word 'plough' was misspelt."

　　"Oh, you did notice that, did you? Come, Watson, you improve all thetime. Yes, it was bad English but good American. The printer had setit up as received. Then the buckboards. That is American also. Andartesian wells are commoner with them than with us. It was a typicalAmerican advertisement, but purporting to be from an English firm.What do you make of that?"

　　"I can only suppose that this American lawyer put it in himself.What his object was I fail to understand."

　　"Well, there are alternative explanations. Anyhow, he wanted toget this good old fossil up to Birmingham. That is very clear. I mighthave told him that he was clearly going on a wild-goose chase, but, onsecond thoughts, it seemed better to clear the stage by letting himgo. To-morrow, Watson- well, to-morrow will speak for itself."Holmes was up and out early. When he returned at lunchtime I noticedthat his face was very grave.

　　"This is a more serious matter than I had expected, Watson," saidhe. "It is fair to tell you so, though I know it will only be anadditional reason to you for running your head into danger. I shouldknow my Watson by now. But there is danger, and you should know it.""Well, it is not the first we have shared, Holmes. I hope it may notbe the last. What is the particular danger this time?"

　　"We are up against a very hard case. I have identified Mr. JohnGarrideb, Counsellor at Law. He is none other than 'Killer' Evans,of sinister and murderous reputation."

　　"I fear I am none the wiser."

　　"Ah, it is not part of, your profession to carry about a portableNewgate Calendar in your memory. I have been down to see friendLestrade at the Yard. There may be an occasional want of imaginativeintuition down there, but they lead the world for thoroughness andmethod. I had an idea that we might get on the track of our Americanfriend in their records. Sure enough, I found his chubby facesmiling up at me from the rogues' portrait gallery. 'James Winter,alias Morecroft, alias Killer Evans,' was the inscription below."Holmes drew an envelope from his pocket. "I scribbled down a fewpoints from his dossier: Aged forty-four. Native of Chicago. Knownto have shot three men in the States. Escaped from penitentiarythrough political influence. Came to London in 1893. Shot a man overcards in a night-club in the Waterloo Road in January, 1895. Man died,but he was shown to have been the aggressor in the row. Dead man wasidentified as Rodger Prescott, famous as forger and coiner in Chicago.Killer Evans released in 1901. Has been under police supervisionsince, but so far as known has led an honest life. Very dangerous man,usually carries arms and is prepared to use them. That is our bird,Watson- a sporting bird, as you must admit."

　　"But what is his game?"

　　"Well, it begins to define itself. I have been to the house-agent's.Our client, as he told us, has been there five years. It was unlet fora year before then. The previous tenant was a gentleman at large namedWaldron. Waldron's appearance was well remembered at the office. Hehad suddenly vanished and nothing more been heard of him. He was atall, bearded man with very dark features. Now, Prescott, the man whomKiller Evans had shot, was, according to Scotland Yard, a tall, darkman with a beard. As a working hypothesis, I think we may take it thatPrescott, the American criminal, used to live in the very room whichour innocent friend now devotes to his museum. So at last we get alink, you see."

　　"And the next link?"

　　"Well, we must go now and look for that."

　　He took a revolver from the drawer and handed it to me."I have my old favourite with me. If our Wild West friend tries tolive up to his nickname, we must be ready for him. I'll give you anhour for a siesta, Watson, and then I think it will be time for ourRyder Street adventure."

　　It was just four o'clock when we reached the curious apartment ofNathan Garrideb. Mrs. Saunders, the caretaker, was about to leave, butshe had no hesitation in admitting us, for the door shut with a springlock, and Holmes promised to see that all was safe before we left.Shortly afterwards the outer door closed, her bonnet passed the bowwindow, and we knew that we were alone in the lower floor of thehouse. Holmes made a rapid examination of the premises. There wasone cupboard in a dark corner which stood out a little from thewall. It was behind this that we eventually crouched while Holmes in awhisper outlined his intentions.

　　"He wanted to get our amiable friend out of his room- that is veryclear, and, as the collector never went out, it took some planningto do it. The whole of this Garrideb invention was apparently for noother end. I must say, Watson, that there is a certain devilishingenuity about it, even if the queer name of the tenant did givehim an opening which he could hardly have expected. He wove his plotwith remarkable cunning."

　　"But what did he want?"

　　"Well, that is what we are here to find out. It has nothing whateverto do with our client, so far as I can read the situation. It issomething connected with the man he murdered- the man who may havebeen his confederate in crime. There is some guilty secret in theroom. That is how I read it. At first I thought our friend mighthave something in his collection more valuable than he knew- somethingworth the attention of a big criminal. But the fact that RodgerPrescott of evil memory inhabited these rooms points to some deeperreason. Well, Watson, we can but possess our souls in patience and seewhat the hour may bring."

　　That hour was not long in striking. We crouched closer in the shadowas we heard the outer door open and shut. Then came the sharp,metallic snap of a key, and the American was in the room. He closedthe door softly behind him, took a sharp glance around him to see thatall was safe, threw off his overcoat, and walked up to the centraltable with the brisk manner of one who knows exactly what he has to doand how to do it. He pushed the table to one side, tore up thesquare of carpet on which it rested, rolled it completely back, andthen, drawing a jemmy from his inside pocket, he knelt down and workedvigorously upon the floor. Presently we heard the sound of slidingboards, and an instant later a square had opened in the planks. KillerEvans struck a match, lit a stump of candle, and vanished from ourview.

　　Clearly our moment had come. Holmes touched my wrist as a signal,and together we stole across to the open trap-door. Gently as wemoved, however, the old floor must have creaked under our feet, forthe head of our American, peering anxiously round, emerged suddenlyfrom the open space. His face turned upon us with a glare of baffledrage, which gradually softened into a rather shamefaced grin as herealized that two pistols were pointed at his head.

　　"Well, well!" said he coolly as he scrambled to the surface. "Iguess you have been one too many for me, Mr. Holmes. Saw through mygame, I suppose, and played me for a sucker from the first. Well, sir,I hand it to you; you have me beat and-"

　　In an instant he had whisked out a revolver from his breast andhad fired two shots. I felt a sudden hot sear as if a red-hot iron hadbeen pressed to my thigh. There was a crash as Holmes's pistol camedown on the man's head. I had a vision of him sprawling upon the floorwith blood running down his face while Holmes rummaged him forweapons. Then my friend's wiry arms were round me, and he wasleading me to a chair.

　　"You're not hurt, Watson? For God's sake, say that you are nothurt!"

　　It was worth a wound- it was worth many wounds- to know the depth ofloyalty and love which lay behind that cold mask. The clear, hard eyeswere dimmed for a moment, and the firm lips were shaking. For theone and only time I caught a glimpse of a great heart as well as ofa great brain. All my years of humble but single-minded serviceculminated in that moment of revelation.

　　"It's nothing, Holmes. It's a mere scratch."

　　He had ripped up my trousers with his pocket-knife.

　　"You are right," fie c:ried with an immense sigh of relief. "It isquite superficial." His face set like flint as he glared at ourprisoner, who was sitting up with a dazed face. "By the Lord, it is aswell for you. If you had killed Watson, you would not have got outof this room alive. Now, sir, what have you to say for yourself?"He had nothing to say for himself. He only sat and scowled. I leanedon Holmes's arm, and together we looked down into the small cellarwhich had been disclosed by the secret flap. it was stillilluminated by the candle which Evans had taken down with him. Oureyes fell upon a mass of rusted machinery, great rolls of paper, alitter of bottles, and, neatly arranged upon a small table, a numberof neat little bundies.

　　"A printing press- a counterfeiter's outfit," said Holmes."Yes, sir," said our prisoner, staggering slowly to his feet andthen sinking into the chair. "The greatest counterfeiter London eversaw. That's Prescott's machine, and those bundles on the table are twothousand of Prescott's notes worth a hundred each and fit to passanywhere. Help yourselves, gentlemen. Call it a deal and let me beatit."

　　Holmes laughed.

　　"We don't do things like that, Mr. Evans. There is no bolt-holefor you in this country. You shot this man Prescott, did you not?""Yes, sir, and got five years for it, though it was he who pulled onme. Five years- when I should have had a medal the size of a soupplate. No living man could tell a Prescott from a Bank of England, andif I hadn't put him out he would have flooded London with them. Iwas the only one in the world who knew where he made them. Can youwonder that I wanted to get to the place? And can you wonder that whenI found this crazy boob of a bug-hunter with the queer namesquatting right on the top of it, and never quitting his room, I hadto do the best I could to shift him? Maybe I would have been wiserif I had put him away. It would have been easy enough, but I'm asoft-hearted guy that can't begin shooting unless the other man hasa gun also. But say, Mr. Holmes, what have I done wrong, anyhow?I've not used this plant. I've not hurt this old stiff. Where do youget me?"

　　"Only attempted murder, so far as I can see," said Holmes. "Butthat's not our job. They take that at the next stage. What we wantedat present was just your sweet self. Please give the Yard a call,Watson. It won't be entirely unexpected."

　　So those were the facts about Killer Evans and his remarkableinvention of the three Garridebs. We heard later that our poor oldfriend never got over the shock of his dissipated dreams. When hiscastle in the air fell down, it buried him beneath the ruins. He waslast heard of at a nursing-home in Brixton. It was a glad day at theYard when the Prescott outfit was discovered, for, though they knewthat it existed, they had never been able, after the death of the man,to find out where it was. Evans had indeed done great service andcaused several worthy C.I.D. men to sleep the sounder, for thecounterfeiter stands in a class by himself as a public danger. Theywould willingly have subscribed to that soup-plate medal of whichthe criminal had spoken, but an unappreciative bench took a lessfavourable view, ind the Killer returned to those shades from which hehad just emerged.

　　THE END

　　.

　　1904

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE THREE STUDENTS

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　It was in the year '95 that a combination of events, into which Ineed not enter, caused Mr. Sherlock Holmes and myself to spend someweeks in one of our great university towns, and it was during thistime that the small but instructive adventure which I am about torelate befell us. It will be obvious that any details which would helpthe reader exactly to identify the college or the criminal would beinjudicious and offensive. So painful a scandal may well be allowed todie out. With due discretion the incident itself may, however, bedescribed, since it serves to illustrate some of those qualities forwhich my friend was remarkable. I will endeavour, in my statement,to avoid such terms as would serve to limit the events to anyparticular place, or give a clue as to the people concerned.We were residing at the time in furnished lodgings close to alibrary where Sherlock Holmes was pursuing some laborious researchesin early English charters- researches which led to results so strikingthat they may be the subject of one of my future narratives. Here itwas that one evening we received a visit from an acquaintance, Mr.Hilton Soames, tutor and lecturer at the College of St. Luke's. Mr.Soames was a tall, spare man, of a nervous and excitabletemperament. I had always known him to be restless in his manner,but on this particular occasion he was in such a state ofuncontrollable agitation that it was clear something very unusualhad occurred.

　　"I trust, Mr. Holmes, that you can spare me a few hours of yourvaluable time. We have had a very painful incident at St. Luke's,and really, but for the happy chance of your being in town, I shouldhave been at a loss what to do."

　　"I am very busy just now, and I desire no distractions," my friendanswered. "I should much prefer that you called in the aid of thepolice."

　　"No, no, my dear sir; such a course is utterly impossible. When oncethe law is evoked it cannot be stayed again, and this is just one ofthose cases where, for the credit of the college, it is most essentialto avoid scandal. Your discretion is as well known as your powers, andyou are the one man in the world who can help me. I beg you, Mr.Holmes, to do what you can."

　　My friend's temper had not improved since he had been deprived ofthe congenial surroundings of Baker Street. Without his scrapbooks,his chemicals, and his homely untidiness, he was an uncomfortable man.He shrugged his shoulders in ungracious acquiescence, while ourvisitor in hurried words and with much excitable gesticulationpoured forth his story.

　　"I must explain to you, Mr. Holmes, that to-morrow is the firstday of the examination for the Fortescue Scholarship. I am one ofthe examiners. My subject is Greek, and the first of the papersconsists of a large passage of Greek translation which the candidatehas not seen. This passage is printed on the examination paper, and itwould naturally be an immense advantage if the candidate could prepareit in advance. For this reason, great care is taken to keep thepaper secret.

　　"To-day, about three o'clock, the proofs of this paper arrivedfrom the printers. The exercise consists of half a chapter ofThucydides. I had to read it over carefully, as the text must beabsolutely correct. At four-thirty my task was not yet completed. Ihad, however, promised to take tea in a friend's rooms, so I leftthe proof upon my desk. I was absent rather more than an hour."You are aware, Mr. Holmes, that our college doors are double-agreen baize one within and a heavy oak one without. As I approached myouter door, I was amazed to see a key in it. For an instant I imaginedthat I had left my own there, but on feeling in my pocket I found thatit was all right. The only duplicate which existed, so far as Iknew, was that which belonged to my servant, Bannister- a man whohas looked after my room for ten years, and whose honesty isabsolutely above suspicion. I found that the key was indeed his,that he had entered my room to know if I wanted tea, and that he hadvery carelessly left the key in the door when he came out. His visitto my room must have been within a very few minutes of my leavingit. His forgetfulness about the key would have mattered little uponany other occasion, but on this one day it has produced the mostdeplorable consequences.

　　"The moment I looked at my table, I was aware that someone hadrummaged among my papers. The proof was in three long slips. I hadleft them all together. Now, I found that one of them was lying on thefloor, one was on the side table near the window, and the third waswhere I had left it."

　　Holmes stirred for the first time.

　　"The first page on the floor, the second in the window, the thirdwhere you left it," said he.

　　"Exactly, Mr. Holmes. You amaze me. How could you possibly knowthat?"

　　"Pray continue your very interesting statement."

　　"For an instant I imagined that Bannister had taken the unpardonableliberty of examining my papers. He denied it, however, with the utmostearnestness, and I am convinced that he was speaking the truth. Thealternative was that someone passing had observed the key in the door,had known that I was out, and had entered to look at the papers. Alarge sum of money is at stake, for the scholarship is a very valuableone, and an unscrupulous man might very well run a risk in order togain an advantage over his fellows.

　　"Bannister was very much upset by the incident. He had nearlyfainted when we found that the papers had undoubtedly been tamperedwith. I gave him a little brandy and left him collapsed in a chair,while I made a most careful examination of the room. I soon saw thatthe intruder had left other traces of his presence besides the rumpledpapers. On the table in the window were several shreds from a pencilwhich had been sharpened. A broken tip of lead was lying there also.Evidently the rascal had copied the paper in a great hurry, had brokenhis pencil, and had been compelled to put a fresh point to it.""Excellent!" said Holmes, who was recovering his good-humour ashis attention became more engrossed by the case. "Fortune has beenyour friend."

　　"This was not all. I have a new writing-table with a fine surface ofred leather. I am prepared to swear, and so is Bannister, that itwas smooth and unstained. Now I found a clean cut in it about threeinches long- not a mere scratch, but a positive cut. Not only this,but on the table I found a small ball of black dough or clay, withspecks of something which looks like sawdust in it. I am convincedthat these marks were left by the man who rifled the papers. Therewere no footmarks and no other evidence as to his identity. I was atmy wit's end, when suddenly the happy thought occurred to me thatyou were in the town, and I came straight round to put the matter intoyour hands. Do help me, Mr. Holmes. You see my dilemma. Either Imust find the man or else the examination must be postponed untilfresh papers are prepared, and since this cannot be done withoutexplanation, there will ensue a hideous scandal, which will throw acloud not only on the college, but on the university. Above allthings, I desire to settle the matter quietly and discreetly.""I shall be happy to look into it and to give you such advice as Ican," said Holmes, rising and putting on his overcoat. "The case isnot entirely devoid of interest. Had anyone visited you in your roomafter the papers came to you?"

　　"Yes, young Daulat Ras, an Indian student, who lives on the samestair, came in to ask me some particulars about the examination.""For which he was entered?"

　　"Yes."

　　"And the papers were on your table?"

　　"To the best of my belief, they were rolled up."

　　"But might be recognized as proofs?"

　　"Possibly."

　　"No one else in your room?"

　　"No."

　　"Did anyone know that these proofs would be there?"

　　"No one save the printer."

　　"Did this man Bannister know?"

　　"No, certainly not. No one knew."

　　"Where is Bannister now?"

　　"He was very ill, poor fellow. I left him collapsed in the chair.I was in such a hurry to come to you."

　　"You left your door open?"

　　"I locked up the papers first."

　　"Then it amounts to this, Mr. Soames: that, unless the Indianstudent recognized the roll as being proofs, the man who tampered withthem came upon them accidentally without knowing that they werethere."

　　"So it seems to me."

　　Holmes gave an enigmatic smile.

　　"Well," said he, "let us go round. Not one of your cases, Watson-mental, not physical. All right; come if you want to. Now, Mr. Soames-at your disposal!"

　　The sitting-room of our client opened by a long, low, latticedwindow on to the ancient lichen-tinted court of the old college. AGothic arched door led to a worn stone Staircase. On the groundfloor was the tutor's room. Above were three students, one on eachstory. It was already twilight when we reached the scene of ourproblem. Holmes halted and looked earnestly at the window. Then heapproached it, and, standing on tiptoe with his neck craned, he lookedinto the room.

　　"He must have entered through the door. There is no opening exceptthe one pane," said our learned guide.

　　"Dear me!" said Holmes, and he smiled in a singular way as heglanced at our companion. "Well, if there is nothing to be learnedhere, we had best go inside."

　　The lecturer unlocked the outer door and ushered us into his room.We stood at the entrance while Holmes made an examination of thecarpet.

　　"I am afraid there are no signs here," said he. "One could hardlyhope for any upon so dry a day. Your servant seems to have quiterecovered. You left him in a chair, you say. Which chair?""By the window there."

　　"I see. Near this little table. You can come in now. I have finishedwith the carpet. Let us take the little table first. Of course, whathas happened is very clear. The man entered and took the papers, sheetby sheet, from the central table. He carried them over to the windowtable, because from there he could see if you came across thecourtyard, and so could effect an escape."

　　"As a matter of fact, he could not," said Soames, "for I enteredby the side door."

　　"Ah, that's good! Well, anyhow, that was in his mind. Let me see thethree strips. No finger impressions- no! Well, he carried over thisone first, and he copied it. How long would it take him to do that,using every possible contraction? A quarter of an hour, not less. Thenhe tossed it down and seized the next. He was in the midst of thatwhen your return caused him to make a very hurried retreat- veryhurried, since he had not time to replace the papers which wouldtell you that he had been there. You were not aware of any hurryingfeet on the stair as you entered the outer door?"

　　"No, I can't say I was."

　　"Well, he wrote so furiously that he broke his pencil, and had, asyou observe, to sharpen it again. This is of interest, Watson. Thepencil was not an ordinary one. It was above the usual size, with asoft lead, the outer colour was dark blue, the maker's name wasprinted in silver lettering, and the piece remaining is only aboutan inch and a half long. Look for such a pencil, Mr. Soames, and youhave got your man. When I add that he possesses a large and very bluntknife, you have an additional aid."

　　Mr. Soames was somewhat overwhelmed by this flood of information. "Ican follow the other points," said he, "but really, in this matterof the length-"

　　Holmes held out a small chip with the letters NN and a space ofclear wood after them.

　　"You see?"

　　"No, I fear that even now-"

　　"Watson, I have always done you an injustice. There are others. Whatcould this NN be? It is at the end of a word. You are aware thatJohann Faber is the most common maker's name. Is it not clear thatthere is just as much of the pencil left as usually follows theJohann?" He held the small table sideways to the electric light. "Iwas hoping that if the paper on which he wrote was thin, some trace ofit might come through upon this polished surface. No, I see nothing. Idon't think there is anything more to be learned here. Now for thecentral table. This small pellet is, I presume, the black, doughy massyou spoke of. Roughly pyramidal in shape and hollowed out, I perceive.As you say, there appear to be grains of sawdust in it. Dear me,this is very interesting. And the cut- a positive tear, I see. Itbegan with a thin scratch and ended in a jagged hole. I am muchindebted to you for directing my attention to this case, Mr. Soames.Where does that door lead to?"

　　"To my bedroom."

　　"Have you been in it since your adventure?"

　　"No, I came straight away for you."

　　"I should like to have a glance round. What a charming,old-fashioned room! Perhaps you will kindly wait a minute, until Ihave examined the floor. No, I see nothing. What about this curtain?You hang your clothes behind it. If anyone were forced to concealhimself in this room he must do it there, since the bed is too low andthe wardrobe too shallow. No one there, I suppose?"

　　As Holmes drew the curtain I was aware, from some little rigidityand alertness of his attitude, that he was prepared for anemergency. As a matter of fact, the drawn curtain disclosed nothingbut three or four suits of clothes hanging from a line of pegs. Holmesturned away, and stooped suddenly to the floor.

　　"Halloa! What's this?" said he.

　　It was a small pyramid of black, putty-like stuff, exactly likethe one upon the table of the study. Holmes held it out on his openpalm in the glare of the electric light.

　　"Your visitor seems to have left traces in your bedroom as well asin your sittingroom, Mr. Soames."

　　"What could he have wanted there?"

　　"I think it is clear enough. You came back by an unexpected way, andso he had no waming until you were at the very door. What could he do?He caught up everything which would betray him, and he rushed intoyour bedroom to conceal himself"

　　"Good gracious, Mr. Holmes, do you mean to tell me that, all thetime I was talking to Bannister in this room, we had the manprisoner if we had only known it?"

　　"So I read it."

　　"Surely there is another alternative, Mr. Holmes. I don't knowwhether you observed my bedroom window?"

　　"Lattice-paned, lead framework, three separate windows, one swingingon hinge, and large enough to admit a man."

　　"Exactly. And it looks out on an angle of the courtyard so as tobe partly invisible. The man might have effected his entrance there,left traces as he passed through the bedroom, and finally, finding thedoor open, have escaped that way."

　　Holmes shook his head impatiently.

　　"Let us be practical," said he. "I understand you to say thatthere are three students who use this stair, and are in the habit ofpassing your door?"

　　"Yes, there are."

　　"And they are all in for this examination?"

　　"Yes."

　　"Have you any reason to suspect any one of them more than theothers?"

　　Soames hesitated.

　　"It is a very delicate question," said he. "One hardly likes tothrow suspicion where there are no proofs."

　　"Let us hear the suspicions. I will look after the proofs.""I will tell you, then, in a few words the character of the threemen who inhabit these rooms. The lower of the three is Gilchrist, afine scholar and athlete, plays in the Rugby team and the cricket teamfor the college, and got his Blue for the hurdles and the long jump.He is a fine, manly fellow. His father was the notorious Sir JabezGilchrist, who ruined himself on the turf. My scholar has been leftvery poor, but he is hard-working and industrious. He will do well."The second floor is inhabited by Daulat Ras, the Indian. He is aquiet, inscrutable fellow; as most of those Indians are. He is well upin his work, though his Greek is his weak subject. He is steady andmethodical.

　　"The top floor belongs to Miles McLaren. He is a brilliant fellowwhen he chooses to work- one of the brightest intellects of theuniversity; but he is wayward, dissipated, and unprincipled. He wasnearly expelled over a card scandal in his first year. He has beenidling all this term, and he must look forward with dread to theexamination."

　　"Then it is he whom you suspect?"

　　"I dare not go so far as that. But, of the three, he is perhapsthe least unlikely."

　　"Exactly. Now, Mr. Soames, let us have a look at your servant,Bannister."

　　He was a little, white-faced, clean-shaven, grizzly-haired fellow offifty. He was still suffering from this sudden disturbance of thequiet routine of his life. His plump face was twitching with hisnervousness, and his fingers could not keep still.

　　"We are investigating this unhappy business, Bannister," said hismaster.

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"I understand," said Holmes, "that you left your key in the door?""Yes, sir."

　　"Was it not very extraordinary that you should do this on the veryday when there were these papers inside?"

　　"It was most unfortunate, sir. But I have occasionally done the samething at other times."

　　"When did you enter the room?"

　　"It was about half-past four. That is Mr. Soames' tea time.""How long did you stay?"

　　"When I saw that he was absent, I withdrew at once."

　　"Did you look at these papers on the table?"

　　"No, sir- certainly not."

　　"How came you to leave the key in the door?"

　　"I had the tea-tray in my hand. I thought I would come back forthe key. Then I forgot."

　　"Has the outer door a spring lock?"

　　"No, sir."

　　"Then it was open all the time?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"Anyone in the room could get out?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"When Mr. Soames returned and called for you, you were very muchdisturbed?"

　　"Yes, sir. Such a thing has never happened during the many yearsthat I have been here. I nearly fainted, sir."

　　"So I understand. Where were you when you began to feel bad?""Where was I, sir? Why, here, near the door."

　　"That is singular, because you sat down in that chair over yondernear the corner. Why did you pass these other chairs?"

　　"I don't know, sir, it didn't matter to me where I sat."'I really don't think he knew much about it, Mr. Holmes. He waslooking very bad- quite ghastly."

　　"You stayed here when your master left?"

　　"Only for a minute or so. Then I locked the door and went to myroom."

　　"Whom do you suspect?"

　　'Oh, I would not venture to say, sir. I don't believe there is anygentleman in this university who is capable of profiting by such anaction. No, sir, I'll not believe it."

　　"Thank you, that will do," said Holmes. "Oh, one more word. You havenot mentioned to any of the three gentlemen whom you attend thatanything is amiss?"

　　"No, sir- not a word."

　　"You haven't seen any of them?"

　　"No, sir."

　　"Very good. Now, Mr. Soames, we will take a walk in thequadrangle, if you please."

　　Three yellow squares of light shone above us in the gathering gloom."Your three birds are all in their nests," said Holmes, lookingup. "Halloa! What's that? One of them seems restless enough."It was the Indian, whose dark silhouette appeared suddenly uponhis blind. He was pacing swiftly up and down his room.

　　"I should like to have a peep at each of them," said Holmes. "Isit possible?"

　　"No difficulty in the world," Soames answered. "This set of rooms isquite the oldest in the college, and it is not unusual for visitors togo over them. Come along, and I will personally conduct you.""No names, please!" said Holmes, as we knocked at Gilchrist'sdoor. A tall, flaxen-haired, slim young fellow opened it, and madeus welcome when he understood our errand. There were some reallycurious pieces of mediaeval domestic architecture within. Holmes wasso charmed with one of them that he insisted on drawing it in hisnotebook, broke his pencil, had to borrow one from our host andfinally borrowed a knife to sharpen his own. The same curious accidenthappened to him in the rooms of the Indian- a silent, little,book-nosed fellow, who eyed us askance, and was obviously glad whenHolmes's architectural studies had come to an end. I could not seethat in either case Holmes had come upon the clue for which he wassearching. Only at the third did our visit prove abortive. The outerdoor would not open to our knock, and nothing more substantial thana torrent of bad language came from behind it. "I don't care who youare. You can go to blazes!" roared the angry voice. "Tomorrow's theexam, and I won't be drawn by anyone."

　　"A rude fellow," said our guide, flushing with anger as wewithdrew down the stair. "Of course, he did not realize that it wasI who was knocking, but none the less his conduct was veryuncourteous, and, indeed, under the circumstances rather suspicious."Holmes's response was a curious one.

　　"Can you tell me his exact height?" he asked.

　　"Really, Mr. Holmes, I cannot undertake to say. He is taller thanthe Indian, not so tall as Gilchrist. I suppose five foot six would beabout it."

　　"That is very important," said Holmes. "And now, Mr. Soames, Iwish you good-night."

　　Our guide cried aloud in his astonishment and dismay. "Goodgracious, Mr. Holmes, you are surely not going to leave me in thisabrupt fashion! You don't seem to realize the position. To-morrow isthe examination. I must take some definite action to-night. I cannotallow the examination to be held if one of the papers has beentampered with. The situation must be faced."

　　"You must leave it as it is. I shall drop round early to-morrowmorning and chat the matter over. It is possible that I may be in aposition then to indicate some course of action. Meanwhile, you changenothing- nothing at all."

　　"Very good, Mr. Holmes."

　　"You can be perfectly easy in your mind. We shall certainly findsome way out of your difficulties. I will take the black clay with me,also the pencil cuttings. Good-bye."

　　When we were out in the darkness of the quadrangle, we againlooked up at the windows. The Indian still paced his room. Theothers were invisible.

　　"Well, Watson, what do you think of it?" Holmes asked, as we cameout into the main street. "Quite a little parlour game- sort ofthree-card trick, is it not? There are your three men. It must beone of them. You take your choice. Which is yours?"

　　"The foul-mouthed fellow at the top. He is the one with the worstrecord. And yet that Indian was a sly fellow also. Why should he bepacing his room all the time?"

　　"There is nothing in that. Many men do it when they are trying tolearn anything by heart."

　　"He looked at us in a queer way.'

　　"So would you, if a flock of strangers came in on you when youwere preparing for an examination next day, and every moment was ofvalue. No, I see nothing in that. Pencils, too, and knives- all wassatisfactory. But that fellow does puzzle me."

　　"Who?"

　　"Why, Bannister, the servant. What's his game in the matter?""He impressed me as being a perfectly honest man."

　　"So he did me. That's the puzzling part. Why should a perfectlyhonest man- Well, well, here's a large stationer's. We shall begin ourresearches here."

　　There were only four stationers of any consequences in the town, andat each Holmes produced his pencil chips, and bid high for aduplicate. All were agreed that one could be ordered, but that itwas not a usual size of pencil and that it was seldom kept in stock.My friend did not appear to be depressed by his failure, butshrugged his shoulders in half-humorous resignation.

　　"No good, my dear Watson. This, the best and only final clue, hasrun to nothing. But, indeed, I have little doubt that we can buildup a sufficient case without it. By Jove! my dear fellow, it is nearlynine, and the landlady babbled of green peas at seven-thirty. Whatwith your eternal tobacco, Watson, and your irregularity at meals, Iexpect that you will get notice to quit, and that I shall share yourdownfall- not, however, before we have solved the problem of thenervous tutor, the careless servant, and the three enterprisingstudents."

　　Holmes made no further allusion to the matter that day, though hesat lost in thought for a long time after our belated dinner. At eightin the morning, he came into my room just as I finished my toilet."Well, Watson," said he, "it is time we went down to St. Luke's. Canyou do without breakfast?"

　　"Certainly."

　　"Soames will be in a dreadful fidget until we are able to tell himsomething positive."

　　"Have you anything positive to tell him?"

　　"I think so."

　　"You have formed a conclusion?"

　　"Yes, my dear Watson, I have solved the mystery."

　　"But what fresh evidence could you have got?"

　　"Aha! It is not for nothing that I have turned myself out of bedat the untimely hour of six. I have put in two hours' hard work andcovered at least five miles, with something to show for it. Look atthat!"

　　He held out his hand. On the palm were three little pyramids ofblack, doughy clay.

　　"Why, Holmes, you had only two yesterday."

　　"And one more this morning. It is a fair argument that whereverNo. 3 came from is also the source of Nos. 1 and 2. Eh, Watson?Well, come along and put friend Soames out of his pain."The unfortunate tutor was certainly in a state of pitiable agitationwhen we found him in his chambers. In a few hours the examinationwould commence, and he was still in the dilemma between making thefacts public and allowing the culprit to compete for the valuablescholarship. He could hardly stand still so great was his mentalagitation, and he ran towards Holmes with two eager handsoutstretched.

　　"Thank heaven that you have come! I feared that you had given itup in despair. What am I to do? Shall the examination proceed?""Yes, let it proceed, by all means."

　　"But this rascal?"

　　"He shall not compete."

　　"You know him?"

　　"I think so. If this matter is not to become public, we must giveourselves certain powers and resolve ourselves into a small privatecourt-martial. You there, if you please, Soames! Watson you here! I'lltake the armchair in the middle. I think that we are nowsufficiently imposing to strike terror into a guilty breast. Kindlyring the bell!"

　　Bannister entered, and shrank back in evident surprise and fear atour judicial appearance.

　　"You will kindly close the door," said Holmes. "Now, Bannister, willyou please tell us the truth about yesterday's incident?"The man turned white to the roots of his hair.

　　"I have told you everything, sir."

　　"Nothing to add?"

　　"Nothing at all, sir."

　　"Well, then, I must make some suggestions to you. When you satdown on that chair yesterday, did you do so in order to conceal someobject which would have shown who had been in the room?"Bannister's face was ghastly.

　　"No, sir, certainly not."

　　"It is only a suggestion," said Holmes, suavely. "I frankly admitthat I am unable to prove it. But it seems probable enough, sincethe moment that Mr. Soames's back was turned, you released the man whowas hiding in that bedroom."

　　Bannister licked his dry lips.

　　"There was no man, sir."

　　"Ah, that's a pity, Bannister. Up to now you may have spoken thetruth, but now I know that you have lied."

　　The man's face set in sullen defiance.

　　"There was no man, sir."

　　"Come, come, Bannister!"

　　"No, sir, there was no one."

　　"In that case, you can give us no further information. Would youplease remain in the room? Stand over there near the bedroom door.Now, Soames, I am going to ask you to have the great kindness to go upto the room of young Gilchrist, and to ask him to step down intoyours."

　　An instant later the tutor returned, bringing with him thestudent. He was a fine figure of a man, tall, lithe, and agile, with aspringy step and a pleasant, open face. His troubled blue eyes glancedat each of us, and finally rested with an expression of blank dismayupon Bannister in the farther corner.

　　"Just close the door," said Holmes. "Now, Mr. Gilchrist, we areall quite alone here, and no one need ever know one word of whatpasses between us. We can be perfectly frank with each other. Wewant to know, Mr. Gilchrist, how you, an honourable man, ever cameto commit such an action as that of yesterday?"

　　The unfortunate young man staggered back, and cast a look full ofhorror and reproach at Bannister.

　　"No, no, Mr. Gilchrist, sir, I never said a word- never one word!"cried the servant.

　　"No, but you have now," said Holmes. "Now, sir, you must see thatafter Bannister's words your position is hopeless, and that youronly chance lies in a frank confession."

　　For a moment Gilchrist, with upraised hand, tried to control hiswrithing features. The next he had thrown himself on his kneesbeside the table, and burying his face in his hands, he had burst intoa storm of passionate sobbing.

　　"Come, come," said Holmes, kindly, "it is human to err, and at leastno one can accuse you of being a callous criminal. Perhaps it would beeasier for you if I were to tell Mr. Soames what occurred, and you cancheck me where I am wrong. Shall I do so? Well, well, don't trouble toanswer. Listen, and see that I do you no injustice.

　　"From the moment, Mr. Soames, that you said to me that no one, noteven Bannister, could have told that the papers were in your room, thecase began to take a definite shape in my mind. The printer one could,of course, dismiss. He could examine the papers in his own office. TheIndian I also thought nothing of. If the proofs were in a roll, hecould not possibly know what they were. On the other hand, it seemedan unthinkable coincidence that a man should dare to enter the room,and that by chance on that very day the papers were on the table. Idismissed that. The man who entered knew that the papers were there.How did he know?

　　"When I approached your room, I examined the window. You amused meby supposing that I was contemplating the possibility of someonehaving in broad daylight, under the eyes of all these oppositerooms, forced himself through it. Such an idea was absurd. I wasmeasuring how tall a man would need to be in order to see, as hepassed, what papers were on the central table. I am six feet high, andI could do it with an effort. No one less than that would have achance. Already you see I had reason to think that, if one of yourthree students was a man of unusual height, he was the most worthwatching of the three.

　　"I entered, and I took you into my confidence as to thesuggestions of the side table. Of the centre table I could makenothing, until in your description of Gilchrist you mentioned thathe was a long-distance jumper. Then the whole thing came to me in aninstant, and I only needed certain corroborative proofs, which Ispeedily obtained.

　　"What happened was this: This young fellow had employed hisafternoon at the athletic grounds, where he had been practising thejump. He returned carrying his jumping shoes, which are provided, asyou are aware, with several sharp spikes. As he passed by yourwindow he saw, by means of his great height, these proofs upon yourtable, and conjectured what they were. No harm would have been donehad it not been that, as he passed your door, he perceived the keywhich had been left by the carelessness of your servant. A suddenimpulse came over him to enter, and see if they were indeed theproofs. It was not a dangerous exploit for he could always pretendthat he had simply looked in to ask a question.

　　"Well, when he saw that they were indeed the proofs, it was thenthat he yielded to temptation. He put his shoes on the table. What wasit you put on that chair near the window?"

　　"Gloves," said the young man.

　　Holmes looked triumphantly at Bannister. "He put his gloves on thechair, and he took the proofs, sheet by sheet, to copy them. Hethought the tutor must return by the main gate and that he would seehim. As we know, he came back by the side gate. Suddenly he heardhim at the very door. There was no possible escape. He forgot hisgloves but he caught up his shoes and darted into the bedroom. Youobserve that the scratch on that table is slight at one side, butdeepens in the direction of the bedroom door. That in itself is enoughto show us that the shoe had been drawn in that direction, and thatthe culprit had taken refuge there. The earth round the spike had beenleft on the table, and a second sample was loosened and fell in thebedroom. I may add that I walked out to the athletic grounds thismorning, saw that tenacious black clay is used in the jumping-pitand carried away a specimen of it, together with some of the finetan or sawdust which is strewn over it to prevent the athlete fromslipping. Have I told the truth, Mr. Gilchrist?"

　　The student had drawn himself erect.

　　"Yes, sir, it is true," said he.

　　"Good heavens! have you nothing to add?" cried Soames.

　　"Yes, sir, I have, but the shock of this disgraceful exposure hasbewildered me. I have a letter here, Mr. Soames, which I wrote toyou early this morning in the middle of a restless night. It wasbefore I knew that my sin had found me out. Here it is, sir. Youwill see that I have said, 'I have determined not to go in for theexamination. I have been offered a commission in the Rhodesian Police,and I am going out to South Africa at once.'"

　　"I am indeed pleased to hear that you did not intend to profit byyour unfair advantage," said Soames. "But why did you change yourpurpose?"

　　Gilchrist pointed to Bannister.

　　"There is the man who set me in the right path," said he."Come now, Bannister," said Holmes. "It will be clear to you, fromwhat I have said, that only you could have let this young man out,since you were left in the room, and must have locked the door whenyou went out. As to his escaping by that window, it was incredible.Can you not clear up the last point in this mystery, and tell us thereasons for your action?"

　　"It was simple enough, sir, if you only had known, but, with allyour cleverness, it was impossible that you could know. Time was, sir,when I was butler to old Sir Jabez Gilchrist, this young gentleman'sfather. When he was ruined I came to the college as servant, but Inever forgot my old employer because he was down in the world. Iwatched his son all I could for the sake of the old days. Well, sir,when I came into this room yesterday, when the alarm was given, thevery first thing I saw was Mr. Gilchrist's tan gloves lying in thatchair. I knew those gloves well, and I understood their message. IfMr. Soames saw them, the game was up. I flopped down into thatchair, and nothing would budge me until Mr. Soames went for you.Then out came my poor young master, whom I had dandled on my knee, andconfessed it all to me. Wasn't it natural, sir, that I should savehim, and wasn't it natural also that I should try to speak to him ashis dead father would have done, and make him understand that he couldnot profit by such a deed? Could you blame me, sir?"

　　"No, indeed," said Holmes, heartily, springing to his feet. "Well,Soames, I think we have cleared your little problem up, and ourbreakfasts awaits us at home. Come, Watson! As to you, sir, I trustthat a bright future awaits you in Rhodesia. For once you havefallen low. Let us see, in the future, how high you can rise."-THE END-

　　.

　　1927

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF THE VEILED LODGER

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　When one considers that Mr. Sherlock Holmes was in active practicefor twenty-three years, and that during seventeen of these I wasallowed to cooperate with him and to keep notes of his doings, it willbe clear that I have a mass of material at my command. The problem hasalways been not to find but to choose. There is the long row ofyear-books which fill a shelf, and there are the dispatch-cases filledwith documents, a perfect quarry for the student not only of crime butof the social and official scandals of the late Victorian era.Concerning these latter, I may say that the writers of agonizedletters, who beg that the honour of their families or the reputationof famous forebears may not be touched, have nothing to fear. Thediscretion and high sense of professional honour which have alwaysdistinguished my friend are still at work in the choice of thesememoirs, and no confidence will be abused. I deprecate, however, inthe strongest way the attempts which have been mode lately to get atand to destroy these papers. The source of these outrages is known,and if they are repeated I have Mr. Holmes's authority for saying thatthe whole story concerning the politician, the lighthouse, and thetrained cormorant will be given to the public. There is at least onereader who will understand.

　　It is not reasonable to suppose that every one of these cases gaveHolmes the opportunity of showing those curious gifts of instinctand observation which I have endeavoured to set fourth in thesememoirs. Sometimes he had with much effort to pick the fruit,sometimes it fell easily into his lap. But the most terrible humantragedies were often involved in those cases which brought him thefewest personal opportunities, and it is one of these which I nowdesire to record. In telling it, I have made a slight change of nameand place, but otherwise the facts are as stated.

　　One forenoon- it was late in 1896- I received a hurried note fromHolmes asking for my attendance. When I arrived I found him seatedin a smoke-laden atmosphere, with all elderly, motherly woman of thebuxom landlady type in the corresponding chair in front of him."This is Mrs. Merrilow, of South Brixton," said my friend with awave of the hand. "Mrs. Merrilow does not object to tobacco, Watson,if you wish to indulge your filthy habits. Mrs. Merrilow has aninteresting story to tell which may well lead to furtherdevelopments in which your presence may be useful."

　　"Anything I can do-"

　　"You will understand, Mrs. Merrilow, that if I come to Mrs. Ronder Ishould prefer to have a witness. You will make her understand thatbefore we arrive."

　　"Lord bless you, Mr. Holmes," said our visitor, "she is that anxiousto see you that you might bring the whole parish at your heals!""Then we shall come early in the afternoon. Let us see that wehave our facts correct before we start. If we go over them it willhelp Dr. Watson to understand the situation. You say that Mrs.Ronder has been your lodger for seven years and that you have onlyonce seen her face."

　　"And I wish to God I had not!" said Mrs. Merrilow.

　　"It was, I understand, terribly mutilated."

　　"Well, Mr. Holmes, you would hardly say it was a face at all. That'show it looked. Our milkman got a glimpse of her once peeping out ofthe upper window, and he dropped his tin and the milk all over thefront garden. that is the kind of face it is. When I saw her- Ihappened on her unawares- she covered up quick, and then she said,'Now, Mrs. Merrilow, you know at last why it is that I never raisemy veil.'"

　　"Do you know anything about her history?"

　　"Nothing at all."

　　"Did she give references when she came?"

　　"No, sir, but she gave hard cash, and plenty of it. A quarter's rentright down on the table in advance and no arguing about terms. Inthese times a poor woman like me can't afford to turn down a chancelike that."

　　"Did she give any reason for choosing your house?"

　　"Mine stands well back from the road and is more private thanmost. Then, again, I only take the one, and I have no family of myown. I reckon she had tried others and found that mine suited herbest. It's privacy she is after, and she is ready to pay for it.""You say that she never showed her face from first to last save onthe one accidental occasion. Well, it is a very remarkable story, mostremarkable, and I don't wonder that you want it examined.""I don't, Mr. Holmes. I am quite satisfied so long as I get my rent.You could not have a quieter lodger, or one who gives less trouble.""Then what has brought matters to a head?"

　　"Her health, Mr. Holmes. She seems to be wasting away. And there'ssomething terrible on her mind. 'Murder!' she cries. 'Murder!' Andonce I heard her: 'You cruel beast! You monster!' she cried. It was inthe night, and it fair rang through the house and sent the shiversthrough me. So I went to her in the morning. 'Mrs. Ronder,' I says,'if you have anything that is troubling your soul, there's theclergy,' I says, 'and there's the police. Between them you shouldget some help.' 'For God's sake, not the police!' says she, 'and theclergy can't change what is past. And yet,' she says, 'it would easemy mind if someone knew the truth before I died.' 'Well,' says I,'if you won't have the regulars, there is this detective man what weread about'- beggin' your pardon, Mr. Holmes. And she, she fair jumpedat it. 'That's the man,' says she. 'I wonder I never thought of itbefore. Bring him here, Mrs. Merrilow, and if he won't come, tellhim I am the wife of Ronder's wild beast show. Say that, and givehim the name Abbas Parva. Here it is as she wrote it, Abbas Parva.'That will bring him if he's the man I think he is.'"

　　"And it will, too," remarked Holmes. "Very good, Mrs. Merrilow. Ishould like to have a little chat with Dr. Watson. That will carryus till lunch-time. About three o'clock you may expect to see us atyour house in Brixton."

　　Our visitor had no sooner waddled out of the room- no other verb candescribe Mrs. Merrilow's method of progression- than Sherlock Holmesthrew himself with fierce energy upon the pile of commonplace books inthe corner. For a few minutes there was a constant swish of theleaves, and then with a grunt of satisfaction he came upon what hesought. So excited was he that he did not rise, but sat upon the floorlike some strange Buddha, with crossed legs, the huge books allround him, and one open upon his knees.

　　"The case worried me at the time, Watson. Here are my marginal notesto prove it. I confess that I could make nothing of it. And yet Iwas convinced that the coroner was wrong. Have you no recollectionof the Abbas Parva tragedy?"

　　"None, Holmes."

　　"And yet you were with me then. But certainly my own impressionwas very superficial. For there was nothing to go by, and none ofthe parties had engaged my services. Perhaps you would care to readthe papers?"

　　"Could you not give me the points?"

　　"That is very easily done. It will probably come back to your memoryas I talk. Ronder, of course, was a household word. He was the rivalof Wombwell, and of Sanger, one of the greatest showmen of his day.There is evidence, however, that he took to drink, and that both heand his show were on the down grade at the time of the greattragedy. The caravan had halted for the night at Abbas Parva, which isa small village in Berkshire, when this horror occurred. They wereon their way to Wimbledon, travelling by road, and they were simplycamping and not exhibiting, as the place is so small a one that itwould not have paid them to open.

　　"They had among their exhibits a very fine North African lion.Sahara King was its name, and it was the habit, both of Ronder and hiswife, to give exhibitions inside its cage. Here, you see, is aphotograph of the performance by which you will perceive that Ronderwas a huge porcine person and that his wife was a very magnificentwoman. It was deposed at the inquest that there had been some signsthat the lion was dangerous, but, as usual, familiarity begatcontempt, and no notice was taken of the fact.

　　"It was usual for either Ronder or his wife to feed the lion atnight. Sometimes one went, sometimes both, but they never allowedanyone else to do it, for they believed that so long as they werethe food-carriers he would regard them as benefactors and wouldnever molest them. On this particular night, seven years ago, theyboth went, and a very terrible happening followed, the details ofwhich have never been made clear.

　　"It seems that the whole camp was roused near midnight by theroars of the animal and the screams of the woman. The different groomsand employees rushed from their tents, carrying lanterns, and by theirlight an awful sight was revealed. Ronder lay, with the back of hishead crushed in and deep claw-marks across his scalp, some ten yardsfrom the cage, which was open. Close to the door of the cage layMrs. Ronder upon her back, with the creature squatting and snarlingabove her. It had torn her face in such a fashion that it was neverthought that she could live. Several of the circus men, headed byLeonardo, the strong man, and Griggs, the clown, drove the creatureoff with poles, upon which it sprang back into the cage and was atonce locked in. How it had got loose was a mystery. It was conjecturedthat the pair intended to enter the cage, but that when the door wasloosed the creature bounded out upon them. There was no other point ofinterest in the evidence save that the woman in a delirium of agonykept screaming, 'Coward! Coward!' as she was carried back to the vanin which they lived. It was six months before she was fit to giveevidence, but the inquest was duly held, with the obvious verdict ofdeath from misadventure.

　　"What alternative could be conceived?" said I.

　　"You may well say so. And yet there were one or two points whichworried young Edmunds, of the Berkshire Constabulary. A smart ladthat! He was sent later to Allanabad. That was how I came into thematter, for he dropped in and smoked a pipe or two over it.""A thin, yellow-haired man?"

　　"Exactly. I was sure you would pick up the trail presently.""But what worried him?"

　　"Well, we were both worried. It was so deucedly difficult toreconstruct the affair. Look at it from the lion's point of view. Heis liberated. What does he do? He takes half a dozen bounds forward,which brings him to Ronder. Ronder turns to fly- the claw-marks wereon the back of his head- but the lion strikes him down. Then,instead of bounding on and escaping, he returns to the woman, whowas close to the cage, and he knocks her over and chews her face up.Then, again, those cries of hers would seem to imply that herhusband had in some way failed her. What could the poor devil havedone to help her? You see the difficulty?"

　　"Quite."

　　"And then there was another thing. It comes back to me now as Ithink it over. There was some evidence that just at the time thelion roared and the woman screamed, a man began shouting in terror.""This man Ronder, no doubt."

　　"Well, if his skull was smashed in you would hardly expect to hearfrom him again. There were at least two witnesses who spoke of thecries of a man being mingled with those of a woman."

　　"I should think the whole camp was crying out by then. As to theother points, I think I could suggest a solution."

　　"I should be glad to consider it."

　　"The two were together, ten yards from the cage, when the lion gotloose. The man turned and was struck down. The woman conceived theidea of getting into the cage and shutting the door. It was her onlyrefuge. She made for it, and just as she reached it the beastbounded after her and knocked her over. She was angry with her husbandfor having encouraged the beast's rage by turning. If they had facedit they might have cowed it. Hence her cries of 'Coward!'""Brilliant, Watson! Only one flaw in your diamond."

　　"What is the flaw, Holmes?"

　　"If they were both ten paces from the cage, how came the beast toget loose?"

　　"Is it possible that they had some enemy who loosed it?""And why should it attack them savagely when it was in the habitof playing with them, and doing tricks with them inside the cage?""Possibly the same enemy had done something to enrage it."Holmes looked thoughtful and remained in silence for some moments."Well, Watson, there is this to be said for your theory. Ronderwas a man of many enemies. Edmunds told me that in his cups he washorrible. A huge bully of a man, he cursed and slashed at everyone whocame in his way. I expect those cries about a monster, of which ourvisitor has spoken, were nocturnal reminiscences of the dear departed.However, our speculations are futile until we have all the facts.There is a cold partridge on the sideboard, Watson, and a bottle ofMontrachet. Let us renew our energies before we make a fresh call uponthem."

　　When our hansom deposited us at the house of Mrs. Merrilow, we foundthat plump lady blocking up the open door of her humble but retiredabode. It was very clear that her chief preoccupation was lest sheshould lose a valuable lodger, and she implored us, before showingus up, to say and do nothing which could lead to so undesirable anend. Then, having reassured her, we followed her up the straight,badly carpeted staircase and were shown into the room of themysterious lodger.

　　It was a close, musty, ill-ventilated place, as might be expected,since its inmate seldom left it. From keeping beasts in a cage, thewoman seemed, by some retribution of fate, to have become herself abeast in a cage. She sat now in a broken armchair in the shadowycorner of the room. Long years of inaction had coarsened the linesof her figure, but at some period it must have been beautiful, and wasstill full and voluptuous. A thick dark veil covered her face, butit was cut off close at her upper lip and disclosed a perfectly shapedmouth and a delicately rounded chin. I could well conceive that shehad indeed been a very remarkable woman. Her voice, too, was wellmodulated and pleasing.

　　"My name is not unfamiliar to you, Mr. Holmes," said she. "I thoughtthat it would bring you."

　　"That is so, madam, though I do not know how you are aware that Iwas interested in your case."

　　"I learned it when I had recovered my health and was examined by Mr.Edmunds, the county detective. I fear I lied to him. Perhaps itwould have been wiser had I told the truth."

　　"It is usually wiser to tell the truth. But why did you lie to him?""Because the fate of someone else depended upon it. I know that hewas a very worthless being, and yet I would not have his destructionupon my conscience. We had been so close- so close!"

　　"But has this impediment been removed?"

　　"Yes, sir. the person that I allude to is dead."

　　"Then why should you not now tell the police anything you know?""Because there is another person to be considered. That other personis myself. I could not stand the scandal and publicity which wouldcome from a police examination. I have not long to live, but I wish todie undisturbed. And yet I wanted to find one man of judgment towhom I could tell my terrible story, so that when I am gone allmight be understood."

　　"You compliment me, madam. At the same time, I am a responsibleperson. I do not promise you that when you have spoken I may notmyself think it my duty to refer the case to the police.""I think not, Mr. Holmes. I know your character and methods toowell, for I have followed your work for some years. Reading is theonly pleasure which fate has left me, and I miss little which passesin the world. But in any case, I will take my chance of the usewhich you may make of my tragedy. It will case my mind to tell it.""My friend and I would be glad to hear it."

　　The woman rose and took from a drawer the photograph of a man. Hewas clearly a professional acrobat, a man of magnificent physique,taken with his huge arms folded across his swollen chest and a smilebreaking from under his heavy moustache- the self-satisfied smile ofthe man of many conquests.

　　"That is Leonardo," she said.

　　"Leonardo, the strong man, who gave evidence?"

　　"The same. And this- this is my husband."

　　It was a dreadful face- a human pig, or rather a human wild boar,for it was formidable in its bestiality. One could imagine that vilemouth champing and foaming in its rage, and one could conceive thosesmall, vicious eyes darting pure malignancy as they looked forthupon the world. Ruffian, bully, beast- it was all written on thatheavy-jowled face.

　　"Those two pictures will help you, gentlemen, to understand thestory. I was a poor circus girl brought up on the sawdust, and doingsprings through the hoop before I was ten. When I became a womanthis man loved me, if such lust as his can be called love, and in anevil moment I became his wife. From that day I was in hell, and he thedevil who tormented me. There was no one in the show who did notknow of his treatment. He deserted me for others. He tied me downand lashed me with his riding-whip when I complained. They allpitied me and they all loathed him, but what could they do? Theyfeared him, one and all. For he was terrible at all times, andmurderous when he was drunk. Again and again he was had up forassault, and for cruelty to the beasts, but he had plenty of money andthe fines were nothing to him. The best men all left us, and theshow began to go downhill. It was only Leonardo and I who kept itup- with little Jimmy Griggs, the clown. Poor devil, he had not muchto be funny about, but he did what he could to bold things together."Then Leonardo came more and more into my life. You see what hewas like. I know now the poor spirit that was hidden in thatsplendid body, but compared to my husband he seemed like the angelGabriel. He pitied me and helped me, till at last our intimacyturned to love- deep, deep, passionate love, such love as I haddreamed of but never hoped to feel. My husband suspected it, but Ithink that he was a coward as well as a bully, and that Leonardo wasthe one man that he was afraid of. He took revenge in his own way bytorturing me more than ever. One night my cries brought Leonardo tothe door of our van. We were near tragedy that night, and soon mylover and I understood that it could not be avoided. My husband wasnot fit to live. We planned that he should die.

　　"Leonardo had a clever, scheming brain. It was he who planned it.I do not say that to blame him, for I was ready to go with him everyinch of the way. But I should never have had the wit to think ofsuch a plan. We made a club- Leonardo made it- and in the leadenhead lie fastened five long steel nails, the points outward, with justsuch a spread as the lion's paw. This was to give my husband hisdeath-blow, and yet to leave the evidence that it was the lion whichwe would loose who had done the deed.

　　"It was a pitch-dark night when my husband and I went down, as wasour custom, to feed the beast. We carried with us the raw meat in azinc pail. Leonardo was waiting at the corner of the big van whichwe should have to pass before we reached the cage. He was too slow,and we walked past him before he could strike, but he followed us ontiptoe and I heard the crash as the club smashed my husband's skull.My heart leaped with joy at the sound. I sprang forward, and I undidthe catch which held the door of the great lion's cage."And then the terrible thing happened. You may have heard howquick these creatures are to scent human blood, and how it excitesthem. Some strange instinct had told the creature in one instantthat a human being had been slain. As I slipped the bars it bouncedout and was on me in an instant. Leonardo could have saved me. If hehad rushed forward and struck the beast with his club he might havecowed it. But the man lost his nerve. I heard him shout in his terror,and then I saw him turn and fly. At the same instant the teeth ofthe lion met in my face. Its hot, filthy breath had already poisonedme and I was hardly conscious of pain. With the palms of my hands Itried to push the great steaming, blood-stained jaws away from me, andI screamed for help. I was conscious that the camp was stirring, andthen dimly I remembered a group of men. Leonardo, Griggs, andothers, dragging me from under the creature's paws. That was my lastmemory, Mr. Holmes, for many a weary month. When I came to myselfand saw myself in the mirror, I cursed that lion- oh, how I cursedhim!- not because he had torn away my beauty but because he had nottorn away my life. I had but one desire, Mr. Holmes, and I hadenough money to gratify it. It was that I should cover myself sothat my poor face should be seen by none, and that I should dwellwhere none whom I had ever known should find me. That was all that wasleft to me to do- and that is what I have done. A poor wounded beastthat has crawled into its hole to die- that is the end of EugeniaRonder."

　　We sat in silence for some time after the unhappy woman had told herstory. Then Holmes stretched out his long arm and patted her hand withsuch a show of sympathy as I had seldom known him to exhibit."Poor girl!" he said. "Poor girl! The ways of fate are indeed hardto understand. If there is not some compensation hereafter, then theworld is a cruel jest. But what of this man Leonardo?"

　　"I never saw him or heard from him again. Perhaps I have beenwrong to feel so bitterly against him. He might as soon have loved oneof the freaks whom we carried round the country as the thing which thelion had left. But a woman's love is not so easily set aside. He hadleft me under the beast's claws, he had deserted me in my need, andyet I could not bring myself to give him to the gallows. For myself, Icared nothing what became of me. What could be more dreadful than myactual life? But I stood between Leonardo and his fate.""And he is dead?"

　　"He was drowned last month when bathing near Margate. I saw hisdeath in the paper.

　　"And what did he do with this five-clawed club, which is the mostsingular and ingenious part of all your story?"

　　"I cannot tell, Mr. Holmes. There is a chalk-pit by the camp, with adeep green pool at the base of it. Perhaps in the depths of thatpool-"

　　"Well, well, it is of little consequence now. The case is closed.""Yes," said the woman, "the case is closed."

　　We had risen to go, but there was something in the woman's voicewhich arrested Holmes's attention. He turned swiftly upon her."Your life is not your own," he said. "Keep your hands off it.""What use is it to anyone?"

　　"How can you tell? the example of patient suffering is in itself themost precious of all lessons to an impatient world."

　　The woman's answer was a terrible one. She raised her veil andstepped forward into the light.

　　"I wonder if you would bear it," she said.

　　It was horrible. No words can describe the framework of a facewhen the face itself is gone. Two living and beautiful brown eyeslooking sadly out from that grisly ruin did but make the view moreawful. Holmes held up his hand in a gesture of pity and protest, andtogether we left the room.

　　Two days later, when I called upon my friend, he pointed with somepride to a small blue bottle upon his mantelpiece. I picked it up.There was a red poison label. A pleasant almondy odour rose when Iopened it.

　　"Prussic acid?" said I.

　　"Exactly. It came by post. 'I send you my temptation. I willfollow your advice.' That was the message. I think, Watson, we canguess the name of the brave woman who sent it."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1908

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE ADVENTURE OF WISTERIA LODGE

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　1. The Singular Experience of Mr. John Scott Eccles

　　I find it recorded in my notebook that it was a bleak and windy day,towards the end of March in the year 1892. Holmes had received atelegram while we sat at our lunch, and he had scribbled a reply. Hemade no remark, but the matter remained in his thoughts, for hestood in front of the fire afterwards with a thoughtful face,smoking his pipe, and casting an occasional glance at the message.Suddenly he turned upon me with a mischievous twinkle in his eyes."I suppose, Watson, We must look upon you as a man of letters," saidhe. "How do you define the word 'grotesque'?"

　　"Strange- remarkable," I suggested.

　　He shook his head at my definition.

　　"There is surely something more than that," said he; "someunderlying suggestion of the tragic and the terrible. If you cast yourmind back to some of those narratives with which you have afflicteda long-suffering public, you will recognize how often the grotesquehas deepened into the criminal. Think of that little affair of thered-headed men. That was grotesque enough in the outset and yet itended in a desperate attempt at robbery. Or, again, there was thatmost grotesque affair of the five orange pips, which led straight to amurderous conspiracy. The word puts me on the alert."

　　"Have you it there?" I asked.

　　He read the telegram aloud.

　　"Have just had most incredible and grotesque experience. May Iconsult you?"

　　"SCOTT ECCLES,

　　"Post-Office, Charing Cross."

　　"Man or woman?" I asked.

　　"Oh, man, of course. No woman would ever send a reply-paid telegram.She would have come."

　　"Will you see him?"

　　"My dear Watson, you know how bored I have been since we locked upColonel Carruthers. My mind is like a racing engine, tearing itself topieces because it is not connected up with the work for which it wasbuilt. Life is commonplace; the papers are sterile; audacity andromance seem to have passed forever from the criminal world. Can youask me, then, whether I am ready to look into any new problem, howevertrivial it may prove? But here, unless I am mistaken, is our client."A measured step was heard upon the stairs, and a moment later astout, tall, gray-whiskered and solemnly respectable person wasushered into the room. His life history was written in his heavyfeatures and pompous manner. From his spats to his gold-rimmedspectacles he was a Conservative, a churchman, a good citizen,orthodox and conventional to the last degree. But some amazingexperience had disturbed his native composure and left its traces inhis bristling hair, his flushed, angry cheeks, and his flurried,excited manner. He plunged instantly into his business."I have had a most singular and unpleasant experience, Mr.Holmes," said he. "Never in my life have I been placed in such asituation. It is most improper- most outrageous. I must insist uponsome explanation." He swelled and puffed in his anger.

　　"Pray sit down, Mr. Scott Eccles," said Holmes in a soothingvoice. "May I ask, in the first place, why you came to me at all?""Well, sir, it did not appear to be a matter which concerned thepolice, and yet, when you have heard the facts, you must admit thatI could not leave it where it was. Private detectives are a class withwhom I have absolutely no sympathy, but none the less, having heardyour name-"

　　"Quite so. But, in the second place, why did you not come at once?""What do you mean?"

　　Holmes glanced at his watch.

　　"It is a quarter-past two," he said. "Your telegram was dispatchedabout one. But no one can glance at your toilet and attire withoutseeing that your disturbance dates from the moment of your waking."Our client smoothed down his unbrushed hair and felt his unshavenchin.

　　"You are right, Mr. Holmes. I never gave a thought to my toilet. Iwas only too glad to get out of such a house. But I have beenrunning round making inquiries before I came to you. I went to thehouse agents, you know, and they said that Mr. Garcia's rent waspaid up all right and that everything was in order at Wisteria Lodge.""Come, come, sir," said Holmes, laughing. "You are like my friend,Dr. Watson, who has a bad habit of telling his stories wrong endforemost. Please arrange your thoughts and let me know, in their duesequence, exactly what those events are which have sent you outunbrushed and unkempt, with dress boots and waistcoat buttoned awry,in search of advice and assistance."

　　Our client looked down with a rueful face at his own

　　unconventional appearance.

　　"I'm sure it must look very bad, Mr. Holmes, and I am not aware thatin my whole life such a thing has ever happened before. But I willtell you the whole queer business, and when I have done so you willadmit I am sure, that there has been enough to excuse me."But his narrative was nipped in the bud. There was a bustleoutside, and Mrs. Hudson opened the door to usher in two robust andofficial-looking individuals, one of whom was well known to us asInspector Gregson of Scotland Yard, an energetic, gallant and,within his limitations, a capable officer. He shook hands withHolmes and introduced his comrade as Inspector Baynes, of the SurreyConstabulary.

　　"We are hunting together, Mr. Holmes, and our trail lay in thisdirection." He turned his bulldog eyes upon our visitor. "Are YouMr. John Scott Eccles, of Popham House, Lee?"

　　"I am."

　　"We have been following you about all the morning."

　　"You traced him through the telegram, no doubt," said Holmes.Exactly, Mr. Holmes. We picked up the scent at Charing CrossPost-Office and came on here."

　　"But why do you follow me? What do you want?"

　　"We wish a statement, Mr. Scott Eccles, as to the events which ledup to the death last night of Mr. Aloysius Garcia, of WisteriaLodge, near Esher."

　　Our client had sat up with staring eyes and every tinge of colourstruck from his astonished face.

　　"Dead? Did you say he was dead?"

　　"Yes, sir, he is dead."

　　"But how? An accident?"

　　"Murder, if ever there was one upon earth."

　　"Good God! This is awful! You don't mean- you don't mean that I amsuspected?"

　　"A letter of yours was found in the dead man's pocket, and we knowby it that you had planned to pass last night at his house.""So I did."

　　"Oh, you did, did you?"

　　Out came the official notebook.

　　"Wait a bit Gregson," said Sherlock Holmes. "All you desire is aplain statement is it not?"

　　"And it is my duty to warn Mr. Scott Eccles that it may be usedagainst him."

　　"Mr. Eccles was going to tell us about it when you entered the room.I think, Watson, a brandy and soda would do him no harm. Now, sir, Isuggest that you take no notice of this addition to your audience, andthat you proceed with your narrative exactly as you would have donehad you never been interrupted."

　　Our visitor had gulped off the brandy and the colour had returned tohis face. With a dubious glance at the inspector's notebook, heplunged at once into his extraordinary statement.

　　"I am a bachelor," said he, "and being of a sociable turn Icultivate a large number of friends. Among these are the family of aretired brewer called Melville, living at Albemarle Mansion,Kensington. It was at his table that I met some weeks ago a youngfellow named Garcia. He was, I understood, of Spanish descent andconnected in some way with the embassy. He spoke perfect English,was pleasing in his manners, and as good-looking a man as ever I sawin my life.

　　"In some way we struck up quite a friendship, this young fellowand I. He seemed to take a fancy to me from the first, and withintwo days of our meeting he came to see me at Lee. One thing led toanother, and it ended in his inviting me out to spend a few days athis house, Wisteria Lodge, between Esher and Oxshott. Yesterdayevening I went to Esher to fulfil this engagement.

　　"He had described his household to me before I went there. Helived with a faithful servant, a countryman of his own, who lookedafter all his needs. This fellow could speak English and did hishousekeeping for him. Then there was a wonderful cook, he said, ahalf-breed whom he had picked up in his travels, who could serve anexcellent dinner. I remember that he remarked what a queer householdit was to find in the heart of Surrey, and that I agreed with him,though it has proved a good deal queerer than I thought."I drove to the place- about two miles on the south side of Esher.The house was a fair-sized one, standing back from the road, with acurving drive which was banked with high evergreen shrubs. It was anold, tumble-down building in a crazy state of disrepair. When the trappulled up on the grass-grown drive in front of the blotched andweather-stained door, I had doubts as to my wisdom in visiting a manwhom I knew so slightly. He opened the door himself, however, andgreeted me with a great show of cordiality. I was handed over to themanservant a melancholy, swarthy individual, who led the way, my bagin his hand, to my bedroom. The whole place was depressing. Our dinnerwas tete-a-tete, and though my host did his best to be entertaining,his thoughts seemed to continually wander, and he talked so vaguelyand wildly that I could hardly understand him. He continuallydrummed his fingers on the table, gnawed his nails, and gave othersigns of nervous impatience. The dinner itself was neither well servednor well cooked, and the gloomy presence of the taciturn servant didnot help to enliven us. I can assure you that many times in the courseof the evening I wished that I could invent some excuse which wouldtake me back to Lee.

　　"One thing comes back to my memory which may have a bearing upon thebusiness that you two gentlemen are investigating. I thought nothingof it at the time. Near the end of dinner a note was handed in bythe servant. I noticed that after my host had read it he seemed evenmore distrait and strange than before. He gave up all pretence atconversation and sat smoking endless cigarettes, lost in his ownthoughts, but he made no remark as to the contents. About eleven I wasglad to go to bed. Some time later Garcia looked in at my door- theroom was dark at the time- and asked me if I had rung. I said that Ihad not. He apologized for having disturbed me so late, saying that itwas nearly one o'clock. I dropped off after this and slept soundly allnight.

　　"And now I come to the amazing part of my tale. When I woke it wasbroad daylight. I glanced at my watch, and the time was nearly nine. Ihad particularly asked to be called at eight, so I was very muchastonished at this forgetfulness. I sprang up and rang for theservant. There was no response. I rang again and again, with thesame result. Then I came to the conclusion that the bell was out oforder. I huddled on my clothes and hurried downstairs in anexceedingly bad temper to order some hot water. You can imagine mysurprise when I found that there was no one there. I shouted in thehall. There was no answer. Then I ran from room to room. All weredeserted. My host had shown me which was his bedroom the night before,so I knocked at the door. No reply. I turned the handle and walked in.The room was empty, and the bed had never been slept in. He had gonewith the rest. The foreign host, the foreign footman, the foreigncook, all had vanished in the night! That was the end of my visit toWisteria Lodge."

　　Sherlock Holmes was rubbing his hands and chuckling as he added thisbizarre incident to his collection of strange episodes."Your experience is, so far as I know, perfectly unique!" said he."May I ask, sir, what you did then?"

　　"I was furious. My first idea was that I had been the victim of someabsurd practical joke. I packed my things, banged the hall door behindme, and set off for Esher, with my bag in my hand. I called at AllanBrothers', the chief land agents in the village, and found that it wasfrom this firm that the villa had been rented. It struck me that thewhole proceeding could hardly be for the purpose of making a fool ofme, and that the main object must be to get out of the rent. It islate in March, so quarter-day is at hand. But this theory would notwork. The agent was obliged to me for my warning, but told me that therent had been paid in advance. Then I made my way to town and calledat the Spanish embassy. The man was unknown there. After this I wentto see Melville, at whose house I had first met Garcia, but I foundthat he really knew rather less about him than I did. Finally when Igot your reply to my wire I came out to you, since I gather that youare a person who gives advice in difficult cases. But now, Mr.Inspector, I understand, from what you said when you entered the room,that you can carry the story on, and that some tragedy has occurred. Ican assure you that every word I have said is the truth, and thatoutside of what I have told you, I know absolutely nothing about thefate of this man. My only desire is to help the law in everypossible way."

　　"I am sure of it Mr. Scott Eccles- I am sure of it," saidInspector Gregson in a very amiable tone. "I am bound to say thateverything which you have said agrees very closely with the facts asthey have come to our notice. For example, there was that note whicharrived during dinner. Did you chance to observe what became of it?""Yes, I did. Garcia rolled it up and threw it into the fire.""What do you say to that, Mr. Baynes?"

　　The country detective was a stout, puffy, red man, whose face wasonly redeemed from grossness by two extraordinarily bright eyes,almost hidden behind the heavy creases of cheek and brow. With aslow smile he drew a folded and discoloured scrap of paper from hispocket.

　　"It was a dog-grate, Mr. Holmes, and he overpitched it. I pickedthis out unburned from the back of it."

　　Holmes smiled his appreciation.

　　"You must have examined the house very carefully to find a singlepellet of paper."

　　"I did, Mr. Holmes. It's my way. Shall I read it, Mr. Gregson?"The Londoner nodded.

　　"The note is written upon ordinary cream-laid paper withoutwatermark. It is a quarter-sheet. The paper is cut off in two snipswith a short-bladed scissors. It has been folded over three timesand sealed with purple wax, put on hurriedly and pressed down withsome flat oval object. It is addressed to Mr. Garcia, WisteriaLodge. It says:

　　"Our own colours, green and white. Green open, white shut. Mainstair, first corridor, seventh right, green baize. Godspeed. D.It is a woman's writing, done with a sharp-pointed pen, but theaddress is either done with another pen or by someone else. It isthicker and bolder, as you see."

　　"A very remarkable note," said Holmes, glancing it over. "I mustcompliment you, Mr. Baynes, upon your attention to detail in yourexamination of it. A few trifling points might perhaps be added. Theoval seal is undoubtedly a plain sleeve-link- what else is of such ashape? The scissors were bent nail scissors. Short as the two snipsare, you can distinctly see the same slight curve in each."The country detective chuckled.

　　"I thought I had squeezed all the juice out of it, but I see therewas a little over," he said. "I'm bound to say that I make nothingof the note except that there was something on hand, and that a woman,as usual, was at the bottom of it."

　　Mr. Scott Eccles had fidgeted in his seat during this conversation."I am glad you found the note, since it corroborates my story," saidhe. "But I beg to point out that I have not yet heard what hashappened to Mr. Garcia, nor what has become of his household.""As to Garcia," said Gregson, "that is easily answered. He was founddead this morning upon Oxshott Common, nearly a mile from his home.His head had been smashed to pulp by heavy blows of a sandbag orsome such instrument, which had crushed rather than wounded. It is alonely corner, and there is no house within a quarter of a mile of thespot. He had apparently been struck down first from behind, but hisassailant had gone on beating him long after he was dead. It was amost furious assault. There are no footsteps nor any clue to thecriminals."

　　"Robbed?"

　　"No, there was no attempt at robbery."

　　"This is very painful- very painful and terrible," said Mr. ScottEccles in a querulous voice, "but it is really uncommonly hard uponme. I had nothing to do with my host going off upon a nocturnalexcursion and meeting so sad an end. How do I come to be mixed up withthe case?"

　　"Very simply, sir," Inspector Baynes answered. "The only documentfound in the pocket of the deceased was a letter from you sayingthat you would be with him on the night of his death. It was theenvelope of this letter which gave us the dead man's name and address.It was after nine this morning when we reached his house and foundneither you nor anyone else inside it. I wired to Mr. Gregson to runyou down in London while I examined Wisteria Lodge. Then I came intotown, joined Mr. Gregson, and here we are."

　　"I think now," said Gregson, rising, "we had best put this matterinto an official shape. You will come round with us to the station,Mr. Scott Eccles, and let us have your statement in writing.""Certainly, I will come at once. But I retain your services, Mr.Holmes. I desire you to spare no expense and no pains to get at thetruth."

　　My friend turned to the country inspector.

　　"I suppose that you have no objection to my collaborating withyou, Mr. Baynes?"

　　"Highly honoured, sir, I am sure."

　　"You appear to have been very prompt and business-like in all thatyou have done. Was there any clue, may I ask, as to the exact hourthat the man met his death?"

　　"He had been there since one o'clock. There was rain about thattime, and his death had certainly been before the rain.""But that is perfectly impossible, Mr. Baynes," cried our client."His voice is unmistakable. I could swear to it that it was he whoaddressed me in my bedroom at that very hour."

　　"Remarkable, but by no means impossible," said Holmes, smiling."You have a clue?" asked Gregson.

　　"On the face of it the case is not a very complex one, though itcertainly presents some novel and interesting features. A furtherknowledge of facts is necessary before I would venture to give a finaland definite opinion. By the way, Mr. Baynes, did you find anythingremarkable besides this note in your examination of the house?"The detective looked at my friend in a singular way.

　　"There were," said he, "one or two very remarkable things. Perhapswhen I have finished at the police-station you would care to comeout and give me your opinion of them."

　　"I am entirely at your service," said Sherlock Holmes, ringing thebell. "You will show these gentlemen out, Mrs. Hudson, and kindly sendthe boy with this telegram. He is to pay a five-shilling reply."We sat for some time in silence after our visitors had left.Holmes smoked hard, with his brows drawn down over his keen eyes,and his head thrust forward in the eager way characteristic of theman.

　　"Well, Watson," he asked, turning suddenly upon me, "What do youmake of it?"

　　"I can make nothing of this mystification of Scott Eccles.""But the crime?"

　　"Well, taken with the disappearance of the man's companions, Ishould say that they were in some way concerned in the murder andhad fled from justice."

　　"That is certainly a possible point of view. On the face of it youmust admit, however, that it is very strange that his two servantsshould have been in a conspiracy against him and should haveattacked him on the one night when he had a guest. They had himalone at their mercy every other night in the week."

　　"Then why did they fly?"

　　"Quite so. Why did they fly? There is a big fact. Another big factis the remarkable experience of our client, Scott Eccles. Now, my dearWatson, is it beyond the limits of human ingenuity to furnish anexplanation which would cover both these big facts? If it were onewhich would also admit of the mysterious note with its very curiousphraseology, why, then it would be worth accepting as a temporaryhypothesis. If the fresh facts which come to our knowledge all fitthemselves into the scheme, then our hypothesis may gradually become asolution."

　　"But what is our hypothesis?"

　　Holmes leaned back in his chair with half-closed eyes.

　　"You must admit my dear Watson, that the idea of a joke isimpossible. There were grave events afoot. as the sequel showed, andthe coaxing of Scott Eccles to Wisteria Lodge had some connection withthem."

　　"But what possible connection?"

　　"Let us take it link by link. There is, on the face of it, somethingunnatural about this strange and sudden friendship between the youngSpaniard and Scott Eccles. It was the former who forced the pace. Hecalled upon Eccles at the other end of London on the very day after hefirst met him, and he kept in close touch with him until he got himdown to Esher. Now, what did he want with Eccles? What could Ecclessupply? I see no charm in the man. He is not particularly intelligent-not a man likely to be congenial to a quick-witted Latin. Why, then,was he picked out from all the other people whom Garcia met asparticularly suited to his purpose? Has he any one outstandingquality? I say that he has. He is the very type of conventionalBritish respectability, and the very man as a witness to impressanother Briton. You saw yourself how neither of the inspectors dreamedof questioning his statement, extraordinary as it was.""But what was he to witness?"

　　"Nothing, as things turned out, but everything had they gone anotherway. That is how I read the matter."

　　"I see, he might have proved an alibi."

　　"Exactly, my dear Watson; he might have proved an alibi. We willsuppose, for arguments sake, that the household of Wisteria Lodgeare confederates in some design. The attempt, whatever it may be, isto come off, we will say, before one o'clock. By some juggling ofthe clocks it is quite possible that they may have got Scott Eccles tobed earlier than he thought but in any case it is likely that whenGarcia went out of his way to tell him that it was one it was reallynot more than twelve. If Garcia could do whatever he had to do andbe back by the hour mentioned he had evidently a powerful reply to anyaccusation. Here was this irreproachable Englishman ready to swearin any court of law that the accused was in his house all the time. Itwas an insurance against the worst."

　　"Yes, yes, I see that. But how about the disappearance of theothers?"

　　"I have not all my facts yet but I do not think there are anyinsuperable difficulties. Still, it is an error to argue in front ofyour data. You find yourself insensibly twisting them round to fityour theories."

　　"And the message?"

　　"How did it run? 'Our own colours, green and white.' Sounds likeracing. 'Green open, white shut.' that is clearly a signal. 'Mainstair, first corridor, seventh right, green baize.' This is anassignation. We may find a jealous husband at the bottom of it all. Itwas clearly a dangerous quest. She would not have said 'Godspeed'had it not been so. 'D'- that should be a guide."

　　"The man was a Spaniard. I suggest that 'D' stands for Dolores, acommon female name in Spain."

　　"Good, Watson, very good- but quite inadmissible. A Spaniard wouldwrite to a Spaniard in Spanish. The writer of this note is certainlyEnglish. Well, we can only possess our souls in patience until thisexcellent inspector comes back for us. Meanwhile we can thank ourlucky fate which has rescued us for a few short hours from theinsufferable fatigues of idleness."

　　An answer had arrived to Holmes's telegram before our Surrey officerhad returned. Holmes read it and was about to place it in his notebookwhen he caught a glimpse of my expectant face. He tossed it acrosswith a laugh.

　　"We are moving in exalted circles," said he.

　　The telegram was a list of names and addresses:

　　Lord Harringby, The Dingle; Sir George Ffolliott, Oxshott Towers;Mr. Hynes Hynes, J. P., Purdey Place; Mr. James Baker Williams, FortonOld Hall; Mr. Henderson, High Gable; Rev. Joshua Stone, NetherWalsling.

　　"This is a very obvious way of limiting our field of operations,"said Holmes. "No doubt Baynes, with his methodical mind, has alreadyadopted some similar plan."

　　"I don't quite understand."

　　"Well, my dear fellow, we have already arrived at the conclusionthat the message received by Garcia at dinner was an appointment or anassignation. Now, if the obvious reading of it is correct and in orderto keep this tryst one has to ascend a main stair and seek the seventhdoor in a corridor, it is perfectly clear that the house is a verylarge one. It is equally certain that this house cannot be more than amile or two from Oxshott, since Garcia was walking in that directionand hoped, according to my reading of the facts, to be back inWisteria Lodge in time to avail himself of an alibi, which wouldonly be valid up to one o'clock. As the number of large houses closeto Oxshott must be limited, I adopted the obvious method of sending tothe agents mentioned by Scott Eccles and obtaining a list of them.Here they are in this telegram, and the other end of our tangled skeinmust lie among them."

　　It was nearly six o'clock before we found ourselves in the prettySurrey village of Esher, with Inspector Baynes as our companion.Holmes and I had taken things for the night, and found comfortablequarters at the Bull. Finally we set out in the company of thedetective on our visit to Wisteria Lodge. It was a cold, dark Marchevening, with a sharp wind and a fine rain beating upon our faces, afit setting for the wild common over which our road passed and thetragic goal to which it led us.

　　2. The Tiger of San Pedro

　　A cold and melancholy walk of a couple of miles brought us to a highwooden gate, which opened into a gloomy avenue of chestnuts. Thecurved and shadowed drive led us to a low, dark house, pitch-blackagainst a slate-coloured sky. From the front window upon the left ofthe door there peeped a glimmer of a feeble light.

　　"There's a constable in possession," said Baynes. "I'll knock at thewindow." He stepped across the grass plot and tapped with his handon the pane. Through the fogged glass I dimly saw a man spring up froma chair beside the fire, and heard a sharp cry from within the room.An instant later a white-faced, hard-breathing policeman had openedthe door, the candle wavering in his trembling hand.

　　"What's the matter, Walters?" asked Baynes sharply.

　　The man mopped his forehead with his handkerchief and gave a longsigh of relief.

　　"I am glad you have come, sir. It has been a long evening, and Idon't think my nerve is as good as it was."

　　"Your nerve, Walters? I should not have thought you had a nerve inyour body."

　　"Well, sir, it's this lonely, silent house and the queer thing inthe kitchen. Then when you tapped at the window I thought it hadcome again."

　　"That what had come again?"

　　"The devil, sir, for all I know. It was at the window.""What was at the window, and when?"

　　"It was just about two hours ago. The light was just fading. I wassitting reading in the chair. I don't know what made me look up, butthere was a face looking in at me through the lower pane. Lord, sir,what a face it was! I'll see it in my dreams."

　　"Tut, tut, Walters. This is not talk for a police-constable.""I know, sir, I know; but it shook me, sir, and there's no use todeny it. It wasn't black, sir, nor was it white, nor any colour that Iknow, but a kind of queer shade like clay with a splash of milk in it.Then there was the size of it- it was twice yours, sir. And the lookof it- the great staring goggle eyes, and the line of white teeth likea hungry beast. I tell you, sir, I couldn't move a finger, nor getmy breath, till it whisked away and was gone. Out I ran and throughthe shrubbery, but thank God there was no one there."

　　"If I didn't know you were a good man, Walters, I should put a blackmark against you for this. If it were the devil himself a constable onduty should never thank God that he could not lay his hands uponhim. I suppose the whole thing is not a vision and a touch of nerves?""That, at least, is very easily settled," said Holmes, lightinghis little pocket lantern. "Yes," he reported, after a shortexamination of the grass bed, "a number twelve shoe, I should say.If he was all on the same scale as his foot he must certainly havebeen a giant."

　　"What became of him?"

　　"He seems to have broken through the shrubbery and made for theroad."

　　"Well" said the inspector with a grave and thoughtful face, "whoeverhe may have been, and whatever he may have wanted, he's gone for thepresent and we have more immediate things to attend to. Now, Mr.Holmes, with your permission, I will show you round the house."The various bedrooms and sitting-rooms had yielded nothing to acareful search. Apparently the tenants had brought little or nothingwith them, and all the furniture down to the smallest detail hadbeen taken over with the house. A good deal of clothing with the stampof Marx and Co., High Holborn, had been left behind. Telegraphicinquiries had been already made which showed that Marx knew nothing ofhis customer save that he was a good payer. Odds and ends, some pipes,a few novels, two of them in Spanish, an old-fashioned pinfirerevolver, and a guitar were among the personal property."Nothing in all this" said Baynes, stalking, candle in hand, fromroom to room. "But now, Mr. Holmes, I invite your attention to thekitchen."

　　It was a gloomy, high-ceilinged room at the back of the house,with a straw litter in one corner, which served apparently as a bedfor the cook. The table was piled with half-eaten dishes and dirtyplates, the debris of last night's dinner.

　　"Look at this," said Baynes. "What do you make of it?"

　　He held up his candle before an extraordinary object which stoodat the back of the dresser. It was so wrinkled and shrunken andwithered that it was difficult to say what it might have been. Onecould but say that it was black and leathery and that it bore someresemblance to a dwarfish, human figure. At first, as I examined it, Ithought that it was a mummified negro baby, and then it seemed avery twisted and ancient monkey. Finally I was left in doubt as towhether it was animal or human. A double band of white shells wasstrung round the centre of it.

　　"Very interesting- very interesting, indeed!" said Holmes, peeringat this sinister relic. "Anything more?"

　　In silence Baynes led the way to the sink and held forward hiscandle. The limbs and body of some large, white bird, torn savagely topieces with the feathers still on, were littered all over it. Holmespointed to the wattles on the severed head.

　　"A white cock," said he. "Most interesting! It is really a verycurious case."

　　But Mr. Baynes had kept his most sinister exhibit to the last. Fromunder the sink he drew a zinc pail which contained a quantity ofblood. Then from the table he took a platter heaped with smallpieces of charred bone.

　　"Something has been killed and something has been burned. We rakedall these out of the fire. We had a doctor in this morning. He saysthat they are not human."

　　Holmes smiled and rubbed his hands.

　　"I must congratulate you, Inspector, on handling so distinctiveand instructive a case. Your powers, if I may say so withoutoffence, seem superior to your opportunities."

　　Inspector Baynes's small eyes twinkled with pleasure.

　　"You're right, Mr. Holmes. We stagnate in the provinces. A case ofthis sort gives a man a chance, and I hope that I shall take it.What do you make of these bones?"

　　"A lamb, I should say, or a kid."

　　"And the white cock?"

　　"Curious, Mr. Baynes, very curious. I should say almost unique.""Yes, sir, there must have been some very strange people with somevery strange ways in this house. One of them is dead. Did hiscompanions follow him and kill him? If they did we should have them,for every port is watched. But my own views are different. Yes, sir,my own views are very different."

　　"You have a theory then?"

　　"And I'll work it myself, Mr. Holmes. It's only due to my own creditto do so. Your name is made, but I have still to make mine. I shouldbe glad to be able to say afterwards that I had solved it without yourhelp."

　　Holmes laughed good-humouredly.

　　"Well, well, Inspector," said he. "Do you follow your path and Iwill follow mine. My results are always very much at your service ifyou care to apply to me for them. I think that I have seen all thatI wish in this house, and that my time may be more profitably employedelsewhere. Au revoir and good luck!"

　　I could tell by numerous subtle signs, which might have been lostupon anyone but myself, that Holmes was on a hot scent. As impassiveas ever to the casual observer, there were none the less a subduedeagerness and suggestion of tension in his brightened eyes and briskermanner which assured me that the game was a foot. After his habit hesaid nothing, and after mine I asked no questions. Sufficient for meto share the sport and lend my humble help to the capture withoutdistracting that intent brain with needless interruption. All wouldcome round to me in due time.

　　I waited, therefore- but to my ever-deepening disappointment Iwaited in vain. Day succeeded day, and my friend took no step forward.One morning he spent in town, and I learned from a casual referencethat he had visited the British Museum. Save for this one excursion,he spent his days in long and often solitary walks, or in chattingwith a number of village gossips whose acquaintance he had cultivated."I'm sure, Watson, a week in the country will be invaluable to you,"he remarked. "It is very pleasant to see the first green shoots uponthe hedges and the catkins on the hazels once again. With a spud, atin box, and an elementary book on botany, there are instructivedays to be spent." He prowled about with this equipment himself, butit was a poor show of plants which he would bring back of an evening.Occasionally in our rambles we came across Inspector Baynes. Hisfat, red face wreathed itself in smiles and his small eyes glitteredas he greeted my companion. He said little about the case, but fromthat little we gathered that he also was not dissatisfied at thecourse of events. I must admit, however, that I was somewhat surprisedwhen, some five days after the crime, I opened my morning paper tofind in large letters:

　　THE OXSHOTT MYSTERY

　　A SOLUTION

　　ARREST OF SUPPOSED ASSASSIN

　　Holmes sprang in his chair as if he had been stung when I read theheadlines.

　　"By Jove!" he cried. "You don't mean that Baynes has got him?""Apparently," said I as I read the following report:

　　"Great excitement was caused in Esher and the neighbouringdistrict when it was learned late last night that an arrest had beeneffected in connection with the Oxshott murder. It will beremembered that Mr. Garcia, of Wisteria Lodge, was found dead onOxshott Common, his body showing signs of extreme violence, and thaton the same night his servant and his cook fled, which appeared toshow participation in the crime. It was suggested, but never proved,that the gentleman may have had valuables in the house, and that theirabstraction was the motive of the crime. Every effort was made byInspector Baynes, who has the case in hand, to ascertain the hidingplace of the fugatives, and he had good reason to believe that theyhad not gone far but were lurking in some retreat which had beenalready prepared. It was certain from the first, however, that theywould eventually be detected, as the cook, from the evidence of one ortwo trades-people who have caught a glimpse of him through the window,was a man of most remarkable appearance- being a huge and hideousmulatto, with yellowish features of a pronounced negroid type. Thisman has been seen since the crime, for he was detected and pursuedby Constable Walters on the same evening, when he had the audacityto revisit Wisteria Lodge. Inspector Baynes, considering that such avisit must have some purpose in view and was likely, therefore, tobe repeated, abandoned the house but left an ambuscade in theshrubbery. The man walk into the trap and was captured last nightafter a struggle in which Constable Downing was badly bitten by thesavage. We understand that when the prisoner is brought before themagistrates a remand will be applied for by the police, and that greatdevelopments are hoped from his capture."

　　"Really we must see Baynes at once," cried Holmes, picking up hishat. "We will just catch him before he starts." We hurried down thevillage street and found, as we had expected, that the inspector wasjust leaving his lodgings.

　　"You've seen the paper, Mr. Holmes?" he asked, holding one out tous.

　　"Yes, Baynes, I've seen it. Pray don't think it a liberty if Igive you a word of friendly warning.

　　"Of warning. Mr. Holmes?"

　　"I have looked into this case with some care, and I am not convincedthat you are on the right lines. I don't want you to commit yourselftoo far unless you are sure."

　　"You're very kind, Mr. Holmes."

　　"I assure you I speak for your good."

　　It seemed to me that something like a wink quivered for an instantover one of Mr. Baynes's tiny eyes.

　　"We agreed to work on our own lines, Mr. Holmes. That's what I amdoing."

　　"Oh, very good," said Holmes. "Don't blame me."

　　"No, sir; I believe you mean well by me. But we all have our ownsystems, Mr. Holmes. You have yours, and maybe I have mine.""Let us say no more about it."

　　"You're welcome always to my news. This fellow is a perfectsavage, as strong as a cart-horse and as fierce as the devil. Hechewed Downing's thumb nearly off before they could master him. Hehardly speaks a word of English, and we can get nothing out of him butgrunts."

　　"And you think you have evidence that he murdered his late master?""I didn't say so, Mr. Holmes; I didn't say so. We all have ourlittle ways. You try yours and I will try mine. That's the agreement."Holmes shrugged his shoulders as we walked away together. "I can'tmake the man out. He seems to be riding for a fall. Well, as hesays, we must each try our own way and see what comes of it. Butthere's something in Inspector Baynes which I can't quite understand.""Just sit down in that chair, Watson," said Sherlock Holmes whenwe had returned to our apartment at the Bull. "I want to put you intouch with the situation, as I may need your help to-night. Let meshow you the evolution of this case so far as I have been able tofollow it. Simple as it has been in its leading features, it hasnone the less presented surprising difficulties in the way of anarrest. There are gaps in that direction which we have still to fill."We will go back to the note which was handed in to Garcia uponthe evening of his death. We may put aside this idea of Baynes'sthat Garcia's servants were concerned in the matter. The proof of thislies in the fact that it was he who had arranged for the presence ofScott Eccles, which could only have been done for the purpose of analibi. It was Garcia, then, who had an enterprise, and apparently acriminal enterprise, in hand that night in the course of which hemet his death. I say 'criminal' because only a man with a criminalenterprise desires to establish an alibi. Who, then, is most likely tohave taken his life? Surely the person against whom the criminalenterprise was directed. So far it seems to me that we are on safeground.

　　"We can now see a reason for the disappearance of Garcia'shousehold. They were all confederates in the same unknown crime. If itcame off when Garcia returned, any possible suspicion would bewarded off by the Englishman's evidence, and all would be well. Butthe attempt was a dangerous one, and if Garcia did not return by acertain hour it was probable that his own life had been sacrificed. Ithad been arranged, therefore, that in such a case his two subordinateswere to make for some prearranged spot where they could escapeinvestigation and be in a position afterwards to renew theirattempt. That would fully explain the facts, would it not?"The whole inexplicable tangle seemed to straighten out before me.I wondered, as I always did, how it had not been obvious to me before."But why should one servant return?"

　　"We can imagine that in the confusion of flight somethingprecious, something which he could not bear to part with, had beenleft behind. That would explain his persistence, would it not?""Well, what is the next step?"

　　"The next step is the note received by Garcia at the dinner. Itindicates a confederate at the other end. Now, where was the otherend? I have already shown you that it could only lie in some largehouse, and that the number of large houses, is limited. My firstdays in this village were devoted to a series of walks in which in theintervals of my botanical researches I made a reconnaissance of allthe large houses and an examination of the family history of theoccupants. One house, and only one, riveted my attention. It is thefamous old Jacobean grange of High Gable, one mile on the farther sideof Oxshott, and less than half a mile from the scene of the tragedy.The other mansions belonged to prosaic and respectable people who livefar aloof from romance. But Mr. Henderson, of High Gable, was by allaccounts a curious man to whom curious adventures might befall. Iconcentrated my attention, therefore, upon him and his household."A singular set of people, Watson- the man himself the most singularof them all. I managed to see him on a plausible pretext, but I seemedto read in his dark, deep-set, brooding eyes that he was perfectlyaware of my true business. He is a man of fifty, strong, active,with iron-gray hair, great bunched black eyebrows, the step of a deer,and the air of an emperor- a fierce, masterful man, with a red-hotspirit behind his parchment face. He is either a foreigner or haslived long in the tropics, for he is yellow and sapless, but toughas whipcord. His friend and secretary, Mr. Lucas, is undoubtedly aforeigner, chocolate brown, wily, suave, and catlike, with a poisonousgentleness of speech. You see, Watson, we have come already upon twosets of foreigners- one at Wisteria Lodge and one at High Gable- soour gaps are beginning to close.

　　"These two men, close and confidential friends, are the centre ofthe household; but there is one other person who for our immediatepurpose may be even more important. Henderson has two children-girls of eleven and thirteen. Their governess is a Miss Burnet, anEnglishwoman of forty or thereabouts. There is also one confidentialmanservant. This little group forms the real family, for they travelabout together, and Henderson is a great traveller, always on themove. It is only within the last few weeks that he has returned, aftera year's absence, to High Gable. I may add that he is enormously rich,and whatever his whims may be he can very easily satisfy them. For therest, his house is full of butlers, footmen, maidservants, and theusual overfed, underworked staff of a large English country-house."So much I learned partly from village gossip and partly from my ownobservation. There are no better instruments than dischargedservants with a grievance, and I was lucky enough to find one. Icall it luck, but it would not have come my way had I not been lookingout for it. As Baynes remarks, we all have our systems. It was mysystem which enabled me to find John Warner, late gardener of HighGable, sacked in a moment of temper by his imperious employer. He inturn had friends among the indoor servants who unite in their fear anddislike of their master. So I had my key to the secrets of theestablishment.

　　"Curious people, Watson! I don't pretend to understand it all yet,but very curious people anyway. It's a double-winged house, and theservants live on one side, the family on the other. There's no linkbetween the two save for Henderson's own servant, who serves thefamily's meals. Everything is carried to a certain door, which formsthe one connection. Governess and children hardly go out at all,except into the garden. Henderson never by any chance walks alone. Hisdark secretary is like his shadow. The gossip among the servants isthat their master is terribly afraid of something. 'Sold his soul tothe devil in exchange for money,' says Warner, 'and expects hiscreditor to come up and claim his own.' Where they came from, or whothey are, nobody has an idea. They are very violent. Twice Hendersonhas lashed at folk with his dog-whip, and only his long purse andheavy compensation have kept him out of the courts.

　　"Well, now, Watson, let us judge the situation by this newinformation. We may take it that the letter came out of this strangehousehold and was an invitation to Garcia to carry out some attemptwhich had already been planned. Who wrote the note? It was someonewithin the citadel, and it was a woman. Who then but Miss Burnet,the governess? All our reasoning seems to point that way. At any rate,we may take it as a hypothesis and see what consequences it wouldentail. I may add that Miss Burnet's age and character make it certainthat my first idea that there might be a love interest in our story isout of the question.

　　"If she wrote the note she was presumably the friend and confederateof Garcia. What, then, might she be expected to do if she heard of hisdeath? If he met it in some nefarious enterprise her lips might besealed. Still, in her heart, she must retain bitterness and hatredagainst those who had killed him and would presumably help so far asshe could to have revenge upon them. Could we see her, then, and tryto use her? That was my first thought. But now we come to a sinisterfact. Miss Burnet has not been seen by any human eye since the nightof the murder. From that evening she has utterly vanished. Is shealive? Has she perhaps met her end on the same night as the friendwhom she had summoned? Or is she merely a prisoner? There is the pointwhich we still have to decide.

　　"You will appreciate the difficulty of the situation, Watson.There is nothing upon which we can apply for a warrant. Our wholescheme might seem fantastic if laid before a magistrate. The woman'sdisappearance counts for nothing, since in that extraordinaryhousehold any member of it might be invisible for a week. And yetshe may at the present moment be in danger of her life. All I can dois to watch the house and leave my agent, Warner, on guard at thegates. We can't let such a situation continue. If the law can donothing we must take the risk ourselves."

　　"What do you suggest?"

　　"I know which is her room. It is accessible from the top of anouthouse. My suggestion is that you and I go to-night and see if wecan strike at the very heart of the mystery."

　　It was not, I must confess, a very alluring prospect. The oldhouse with its atmosphere of murder, the singular and formidableinhabitants, the unknown dangers of the approach, and the fact that wewere putting ourselves legally in a false position all combined todamp my ardour. But there was something in the ice-cold reasoning ofHolmes which made it impossible to shrink from any adventure whichhe might recommend. One knew that thus, and only thus, could asolution be found. I clasped his hand in silence, and the die wascast.

　　But it was not destined that our investigation should have soadventurous an ending. It was about five o'clock, and the shadows ofthe March evening were beginning to fall, when an excited rusticrushed into our room.

　　"They've gone, Mr. Holmes. They went by the last train. The ladybroke away, and I've got her in a cab downstairs."

　　"Excellent, Warner!" cried Holmes, springing to his feet. "Watson,the gaps are closing rapidly."

　　In the cab was a woman, half-collapsed from nervous exhaustion.She bore upon her aquiline and emaciated face the traces of somerecent tragedy. Her head hung listlessly upon her breast but as sheraised it and turned her dun eyes upon us I saw that her pupils weredark dots in the centre of the broad gray iris. She was drugged withopium.

　　"I watched at the gate, same as you advised, Mr. Holmes," said ouremissary, the discharged gardener. "When the carriage came out Ifollowed it to the station. She was like one walking in her sleep, butwhen they tried to get her into the train she came to life andstruggled. They pushed her into the carriage. She fought her way outagain. I took her part, got her into a cab, and here we are. Ishan't forget the face at the carriage window as I led her away. I'dhave a short life if he had his way- the black-eyed, scowling,yellow devil."

　　We carried her upstairs, laid her on the sofa, and a couple ofcups of the strongest coffee soon cleared her brain from the mistsof the drug. Baynes had been summoned by Holmes, and the situationrapidly explained to him.

　　"Why, sir, you've got me the very evidence I want," said theinspector warmly, shaking my friend by the hand. "I was on the samescent as you from the first."

　　"What! You were after Henderson?"

　　"Why, Mr. Holmes, when you were crawling in the shrubbery at HighGable I was up one of the trees in the plantation and saw you downbelow. It was just who would get his evidence first."

　　"Then why did you arrest the mulatto?"

　　Baynes chuckled.

　　"I was sure Henderson, as he calls himself, felt that he wassuspected, and that he would lie low and make no move so long as hethought he was in any danger. I arrested the wrong man to make himbelieve that our eyes were off him. I knew he would be likely to clearoff then and give us a chance of getting at Miss Burnet."Holmes laid his hand upon the inspector's shoulder.

　　"You will rise high in your profession. You have instinct andintuition," said he.

　　Baynes flushed with pleasure.

　　"I've had a plain-clothes man waiting at the station all the week.Wherever the High Gable folk go he will keep them in sight. But hemust have been hard put to it when Miss Burnet broke away. However,your man picked her up, and it all ends well. We can't arrestwithout her evidence, that is clear, so the sooner we get astatement the better."

　　"Every minute she gets stronger," said Holmes, glancing at thegoverness. "But tell me, Baynes. who is this man Henderson?""Henderson," the inspector answered, "is Don Murillo, once calledthe Tiger of San Pedro."

　　The Tiger of San Pedro! The whole history of the man came back to mein a flash. He had made his name as the most lewd and bloodthirstytyrant that had ever governed any country with a pretence tocivilization. Strong, fearless, and energetic, he had sufficientvirtue to enable him to impose his odious vices upon a cowering peoplefor ten or twelve years. His name was a terror through all CentralAmerica. At the end of that time there was a universal risingagainst him. But he was as cunning as he was cruel, and at the firstwhisper of coming trouble he had secretly conveyed his treasuresaboard a ship which was manned by devoted adherents. It was an emptypalace which was stormed by the insurgents next day. The dictator, histwo children, his secretary, and his wealth had all escaped them. Fromthat moment he had vanished from the world, and his identity hadbeen a frequent subject for comment in the European press."Yes, sir, Don Murillo, the Tiger of San Pedro," said Baynes. "Ifyou look it up you will find that the San Pedro colours are greenand white, same as in the note, Mr. Holmes. Henderson he calledhimself, but I traced him back, Paris and Rome and Madrid toBarcelona, where his ship came in in '86. They've been looking for himall the time for their revenge, but it is only now that they havebegun to find him out."

　　"They discovered him a year ago," said Miss Burnet, who had sat upand was now intently following the conversation. "Once already hislife has been attempted, but some evil spirit shielded him. Now,again, it is the noble, chivalrous Garcia who has fallen, while themonster goes safe. But another will come, and yet another, untilsome day justice will be done, that is as certain as the rise ofto-morrow's sun." Her thin hands clenched, and her worn faceblanched with the passion of her hatred.

　　"But how come you into this matter, Miss Burnet?" asked Holmes. "Howcan an English lady join in such a murderous affair?"

　　"I join in it because there is no other way in the world by whichjustice can be gained. What does the law of England care for therivers of blood shed years ago in San Pedro, or for the ship load oftreasure which this man has stolen? To you they are like crimescommitted in some other planet. But we know. We have learned the truthin sorrow and in suffering. To us there is no fiend in hell likeJuan Murillo, and no peace in life while his victims still cry forvengeance."

　　"No doubt" said Holmes, "he was as you say. I have heard that he wasatrocious. But how are you affected?"

　　"I will tell you it all. This villain's policy was to murder, on onepretext or another, every man who showed such promise that he might intime come to be a dangerous rival. My husband- yes, my real name isSipora Victor Durando- was the San Pedro minister in London. He met meand married me there. A nobler man never lived upon earth.Unhappily, Murillo heard of his excellence, recalled him on somepretext, and had him shot. With a premonition of his fate he hadrefused to take me with him. His estates were confiscated, and I wasleft with a pittance and a broken heart.

　　"Then came the downfall of the tyrant. He escaped as you have justdescribed. But the many whose lives he had mined, whose nearest anddearest had suffered torture and death at his hands, would not let thematter rest. They banded themselves into a society which shouldnever be dissolved until the work was done. It was my part after wehad discovered in the transformed Henderson the fallen despot, toattach myself to his household and keep the others in touch with hismovements. This I was able to do by securing the position of governessin his family. He little knew that the woman who faced him at everymeal was the woman whose husband he had hurried at an hour's noticeinto eternity. I smiled on him, did my duty to his children, and bidedmy time. An attempt was made in Paris and failed. We zig-zaggedswiftly here and there over Europe to throw off the pursuers andfinally returned to this house, which he had taken upon his firstarrival in England.

　　"But here also the ministers of justice were waiting. Knowing thathe would return there, Garcia, who is the son of the former highestdignitary in San Pedro, was waiting with two trusty companions ofhumble station, all three fired with the same reasons for revenge.He could do little during the day, for Murillo took every precautionand never went out save with his satellite Lucas, or Lopez as he wasknown in the days of his greatness. At night, however, he slept alone,and the avenger might find him. On a certain evening, which had beenprearranged, I sent my friend final instructions, for the man wasforever on the alert and continually changed his room. I was to seethat the doors were open and the signal of a green or white light in awindow which faced the drive was to give notice if all was safe orif the attempt had better be postponed.

　　"But everything went wrong with us. In some way I had excited thesuspicion of Lopez, the secretary. He crept up behind me and sprangupon me just as I had finished the note. He and his master draggedme to my room and held judgment upon me as a convicted traitress. Thenand there they would have plunged their knives into me could they haveseen how to escape the consequences of the deed. Finally, after muchdebate, they concluded that my murder was too dangerous. But theydetermined to get rid forever of Garcia. They had gagged me, andMurillo twisted my arm round until I gave him the address. I swearthat he might have twisted it off had I understood what it wouldmean to Garcia. Lopez addressed the note which I had written, scaledit with his sleeve-link, and sent it by the hand of the servantJose. How they murdered him I do not know, save that it wasMurillo's hand that struck him down, for Lopez had remained to guardme. I believe he must have awaited among the gorse bushes throughwhich the path winds and struck him down as he passed. At first theywere of a mind to let him enter the house and kill him as a detectedburglar, but they argued that if they were mixed up in an inquirytheir own identity would at once be publicly disclosed and theywould be open to further attacks. With the death of Garcia, thepursuit might cease, since such a death might frighten others from thetask.

　　"All would now have been well for them had it not been for myknowledge of what they had done. I have no doubt that there were timeswhen my life hung in the balance. I was confined to my room,terrorized by the most horrible threats, cruelly ill-used to breakmy spirit- see this stab on my shoulder and the bruises from end toend of my arms- and a gag was thrust into my mouth on the one occasionwhen I tried to call from the window. For five days this cruelimprisonment continued, with hardly enough food to hold body andsoul together. This afternoon a good lunch was brought me, but themoment after I took it I knew that I had been drugged. In a sort ofdream I remember being half-led, half-carried to the carriage, inthe same state I was conveyed to the train. Only then, when the wheelswere almost moving, did I suddenly realize that my liberty lay in myown hands. I sprang out, they tried to drag me back, and had it notbeen for the help of this good man, who led me to the cab, I shouldnever have broken away. Now, thank God, I am beyond their powerforever."

　　We had all listened intently to this remarkable statement. It wasHolmes who broke the silence.

　　"Our difficulties are not over," he remarked, shaking his head. "Ourpolice work ends, but our legal work begins."

　　"Exactly," said I. "A plausible lawyer could make it out as an actof self-defence. There may be a hundred crimes in the background,but it is only on this one that they can be tried."

　　"Come, come," said Baynes cheerily, "I think better of the lawthan that. Self-defence is one thing. To entice a man in cold bloodwith the object of murdering him is another, whatever danger you mayfear from him. No, no, we shall all be justified when we see thetenants of High Gable at the next Guildford Assizes."

　　It is a matter of history, however, that a little time was stillto elapse before the Tiger of San Pedro should meet with hisdeserts. Wily and bold, he and his companion threw their pursuer offtheir track by entering a lodging-house in Edmonton Street and leavingby the back-gate into Curzon Square. From that day they were seen nomore in England. Some six months afterwards the Marquess of Montalvaand Signor Rulli, his secretary, were both murdered in their roomsat the Hotel Escurial at Madrid. The crime was ascribed to Nihilism,and the murderers were never arrested. Inspector Baynes visited usat Baker Street with a printed description of the dark face of thesecretary, and of the masterful features, the magnetic black eyes, andthe tufted brows of his master. We could not doubt that justice, ifbelated, had come at last.

　　"A chaotic case, my dear Watson," said Holmes over an eveningpipe. "It will not be possible for you to present it in that compactform which is dear to your heart. It covers two continents, concernstwo groups of mysterious persons, and is further complicated by thehighly respectable presence of our friend, Scott Eccles, whoseinclusion shows me that the deceased Garcia had a scheming mind anda well-developed instinct of self-preservation. It is remarkableonly for the fact that amid a perfect jungle of possibilities we, withour worthy collaborator, the inspector, have kept our close hold onthe essentials and so been guided along the crooked and windingpath. Is there any point which is not quite clear to you?""The object of the mulatto cook's return?"

　　"I think that the strange creature in the kitchen may account forit. The man was a primitive savage from the backwoods of San Pedro,and this was his fetish. When his companion and he had fled to someprearranged retreat- already occupied, no doubt by a confederate-the companion had persuaded him to leave so compromising an article offurniture. But the mulatto's heart was with it, and he was driven backto it next day, when, on reconnoitring through the window, he foundpoliceman Walters in possession. He waited three days longer, and thenhis piety or his superstition drove him to try once more. InspectorBaynes, who, with his usual astuteness, had minimized the incidentbefore me, had really recognized its importance and had left a trapinto which the creature walked. Any other point, Watson?""The torn bird, the pail of blood, the charred bones, all themystery of that weird kitchen?"

　　Holmes smiled as he turned up an entry in his notebook."I spent a morning in the British Museum reading up on that andother points. Here is a quotation from Eckermann's Voodooism and theNegroid Religions:

　　The true voodoo-worshipper attempts nothing of importance withoutcertain sacrifices which are intended to propitiate his uncleangods. In extreme cases these rites take the form of human sacrificesfollowed by cannibalism. The more usual victims are a white cock,which is plucked in pieces alive, or a black goat, whose throat is cutand body burned.

　　"So you see our savage friend was very orthodox in his ritual. It isgrotesque, Watson," Holmes added, as he slowly fastened hisnotebook, "but, as I have had occasion to remark, there is but onestep from the grotesque to the horrible."

　　-THE END-

　　.

　　1891

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE BOSCOMBE VALLEY MYSTERY

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　We were seated at breakfast one morning, my wife and I, when themaid brought in a telegram. It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran inthis way:

　　Have you a couple of days to spare? Have just been wired for fromthe west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy.Shall be glad if you will come with me. Air and scenery perfect. LeavePaddington by the 11:15.

　　"What do you say, dear?" said my wife, looking across at me. "Willyou go?"

　　"I really don't know what to say. I have a fairly long list atpresent."

　　"Oh, Anstruther would do your work for you. You have been lookinga little pale lately. I think that the change would do you good, andyou are always so interested in Mr. Sherlock Holmes's cases.""I should be ungrateful if I were not, seeing what I gainedthrough one of them," I answered. "But if I am to go, I must pack atonce, for I have only half an hour."

　　My experience of camp life in Afghanistan had at least had theeffect of making me a prompt and ready traveller. My wants were fewand simple, so that in less than the time stated I was in a cab withmy valise, rattling away to Paddington Station. Sherlock Holmes waspacing up and down the platform, his tall, gaunt figure made evengaunter and taller by his long gray travelling-cloak and close fittingcloth cap.

　　"It is really very good of you to come, Watson," said he. "Itmakes a considerable difference to me, having someone with me onwhom I can thoroughly rely. Local aid is always either worthless orelse biassed. If you will keep the two corner seats I shall get thetickets."

　　We had the carriage to ourselves save for an immense litter ofpapers which Holmes had brought with him. Among these he rummagedand read, with intervals of note-taking and of meditation, until wewere past Reading. Then he suddenly rolled them all into a giganticball and tossed them up onto the rack.

　　"Have you heard anything of the case?" he asked.

　　"Not a word. I have not seen a paper for some days."

　　"The London press has not had very full accounts. I have just beenlooking through all the recent papers in order to master theparticulars. It seems, from what I gather, to be one of those simplecases which are so extremely difficult."

　　"That sounds a little paradoxical."

　　"But it is profoundly true. Singularity is almost invariably a clue.The more featureless and commonplace a crime is, the more difficult itis to bring it home. In this case, however, they have established avery serious case against the son of the murdered man.""It is a murder, then?"

　　"Well, it is conjectured to be so. I shall take nothing forgranted until I have the opportunity of looking personally into it.I will explain the state of things to you, as far as I have beenable to understand it, in a very few words.

　　"Boscombe Valley is a country district not very far from Ross, inHerefordshire. The largest landed proprietor in that part is a Mr.John Turner, who made his money in Australia and returned some yearsago to the old country. One of the farms which he held, that ofHatherley, was let to Mr. Charles McCarthy, who was also anex-Australian. The men had known each other in the colonies, so thatit was not unnatural that when they came to settle down they should doso as near each other as possible. Turner was apparently the richerman, so McCarthy became his tenant but still remained, it seems,upon terms of perfect equality, as they were frequently together.McCarthy had one son, a lad of eighteen, and Turner had an onlydaughter of the same age, but neither of them had wives living. Theyappear to have avoided the society of the neighbouring Englishfamilies and to have led retired lives, though both the McCarthys werefond of sport and were frequently seen at the race-meetings of theneighbourhood. McCarthy kept two servants-a man and a girl. Turner hada considerable household, some half-dozen at the least. That is asmuch as I have been able to gather about the families. Now for thefacts.

　　"On June 3rd, that is, on Monday last McCarthy left his house atHatherley about three in the afternoon and walked down to the BoscombePool, which is a small lake formed by the spreading out of thestream which runs down the Boscombe Valley. He had been out with hisserving-man in the morning at Ross, and he had told the man that hemust hurry, as he had an appointment of importance to keep at three.From that appointment he never came back alive.

　　"From Hatherley Farmhouse to the Boscombe Pool is a quarter of amile, and two people saw him as he passed over this ground. One was anold woman, whose name is not mentioned, and the other was WilliamCrowder, a game-keeper in the employ of Mr. Turner. Both thesewitnesses depose that Mr. McCarthy was walking alone. Thegame-keeper adds that within a few minutes of his seeing Mr.McCarthy pass he had seen his son, Mr. James McCarthy, going thesame way with a gun under his arm. To the best of his belief, thefather was actually in sight at the time, and the son was followinghim. He thought no more of the matter until he heard in the evening ofthe tragedy that had occurred.

　　"The two McCarthys were seen after the time when William Crowder,the game-keeper, lost sight of them. The Boscombe Pool is thicklywooded round, with just a fringe of grass and of reeds round the edge.A girl of fourteen, Patience Moran, who is the daughter of thelodge-keeper of the Boscombe Valley estate, was in one of the woodspicking flowers. She states that while she was there she saw, at theborder of the wood and close by the lake, Mr. McCarthy and his son,and that they appeared to be having a violent quarrel. She heard Mr.McCarthy the elder using very strong language to his son, and shesaw the latter raise up his hand as if to strike his father. She wasso frightened by their violence that she ran away and told hermother when she reached home that she had left the two McCarthysquarrelling near Boscombe Pool, and that she was afraid that they weregoing to fight. She had hardly said the words when young Mr.McCarthy came running up to the lodge to say that he had found hisfather dead in the wood, and to ask for the help of thelodge-keeper. He was much excited, without either his gun or hishat, and his right hand and sleeve were observed to be stained withfresh blood. On following him they found the dead body stretched outupon the grass beside the pool. The head had been beaten in byrepeated blows of some heavy and blunt weapon. The injuries weresuch as might very well have been inflicted by the butt-end of hisson's gun, which was found lying on the grass within a few paces ofthe body. Under these circumstances the young man was instantlyarrested, and a verdict of 'wilful murder' having been returned at theinquest on Tuesday, he was on Wednesday brought before the magistratesat Ross, who have referred the case to the next Assizes. Those are themain facts of the case as they came out before the coroner and thepolice-court."

　　"I could hardly imagine a more damning case," I remarked. "If evercircumstantial evidence pointed to a criminal it does so here.""Circumstantial evidence is a very tricky thing," answered Holmesthoughtfully. "It may seem to point very straight to one thing, but ifyou shift your own point of view a little, you may find it pointing inan equally uncompromising manner to something entirely different. Itmust be confessed, however, that the case looks exceedingly graveagainst the young man, and it is very possible that he is indeed theculprit. There are several people in the neighbourhood, however, andamong them Miss Turner, the daughter of the neighbouring land-owner,who believe in his innocence, and who have retained Lestrade, whom youmay recollect in connection with 'A Study in Scarlet', to work out thecase in his interest. Lestrade, being rather puzzled, has referred thecase to me, and hence it is that two middleaged gentlemen are flyingwestward at fifty miles an hour instead of quietly digesting theirbreakfasts at home."

　　"I am afraid," said I, "that the facts are so obvious that youwill find little credit to be gained out of this case.""There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact," he answered,laughing. "Besides, we may chance to hit upon some other obvious factswhich may have been by no means obvious to Mr. Lestrade. You know metoo well to think that I am boasting when I say that I shall eitherconfirm or destroy his theory by means which he is quite incapableof employing, or even of understanding. To take the first example tohand, I very clearly perceive that in your bedroom the window isupon the right-hand side, and yet I question whether Mr. Lestradewould have noted even so self-evident a thing as that.""How on earth-"

　　"My dear fellow, I know you well. I know the military neatness whichcharacterizes you. You shave every morning, and in this season youshave by the sunlight, but since your shaving is less and lesscomplete as we get farther back on the left side, until it becomespositively slovenly as we get round the angle of the jaw, it is surelyvery clear that that is less illuminated than the other. I could notimagine a man of your habits looking at himself in an equal lightand being satisfied with such a result. I only quote this as a trivialexample of observation and inference. Therein lies my metier, and itis just possible that it may be of some service in the investigationwhich lies before us. There are one or two minor points which werebrought out in the inquest, and which are worth considering.""What are they?"

　　"It appears that his arrest did not take place at once, but afterthe return to Hatherley Farm. On the inspector of constabularyinforming him that he was a prisoner, he remarked that he was notsurprised to hear it, and that it was no more than his deserts. Hisobservation of his had the natural effect of removing any traces ofdoubt which might have remained in the minds of the coroner's jury.""It was a confession," I ejaculated.

　　"No, for it was followed by a protestation of innocence.""Coming on the top of such a damning series of events, it was atleast a most suspicious remark."

　　"On the contrary," said Holmes, "it is the brightest rift which Ican at present see in the clouds. However innocent he might be, hecould not be such an absolute imbecile as not to see that thecircumstances were very black against him. Had he appeared surprisedat his own arrest or feigned indignation at it, I should have lookedupon it as highly suspicious, because such surprise or anger would notbe natural under the circumstances, and yet might appear to be thebest policy to a scheming man. His frank acceptance of the situationmarks him as either an innocent man, or else as a man ofconsiderable self-restraint and firmness. As to his remark about hisdeserts, it was also not unnatural if you consider that he stoodbeside the dead body of his father, and that there is no doubt that hehad that very day so far forgotten his filial duty as to bandy wordswith him, and even, according to the little girl whose evidence isso important, to raise his hand as if to strike him. The self-reproachand contrition which are displayed in his remark appear to me to bethe signs of a healthy mind rather than of a guilty one."I shook my head. "Many men have been hanged on far slighterevidence," I remarked.

　　"So they have. And many men have been wrongfully hanged.""What is the young man's own account of the matter?"

　　"It is, I am afraid, not very encouraging to his supporters,though there are one or two points in it which are suggestive. Youwill find it here, and may read it for yourself."

　　He picked out from his bundle a copy of the local Herefordshirepaper, and having turned down the sheet he pointed out the paragraphin which the unfortunate young man had given his own statement of whathad occurred. I settled myself down in the corner of the carriageand read it very carefully. It ran in this way:

　　Mr. James McCarthy, the only son of the deceased, was then calledand gave evidence as follows: "I had been away from home for threedays at Bristol, and had only just returned upon the morning of lastMonday, the 3rd. My father was absent from home at the time of myarrival, and I was informed by the maid that he had driven over toRoss with John Cobb, the groom. Shortly after my return I heard thewheels of his trap in the yard, and, looking out of my window, I sawhim get out and walk rapidly out of the yard, though I was not awarein which direction he was going. I then took my gun and strolled outin the direction of the Boscombe Pool, with the intention ofvisiting the rabbit-warren which is upon the other side. On my way Isaw William Crowder, the game-keeper, as he had stated in hisevidence; but he is mistaken in thinking that I was following myfather. I had no idea that he was in front of me. When about a hundredyards from the pool I heard a cry of 'Cooee!' which was a usual signalbetween my father and myself. I then hurried forward, and found himstanding by the pool. He appeared to be much surprised at seeing meand asked me rather roughly what I was doing there. A conversationensued which led to high words and almost to blows, for my fatherwas a man of a very violent temper. Seeing that his passion wasbecoming ungovernable, I left him and returned towards Hatherley Farm.I had not gone more than 150 yards, however, when I heard a hideousoutcry behind me, which caused me to run back again. I found my fatherexpiring upon the ground, with his head terribly injured. I dropped mygun and held him in my arms, but he almost instantly expired. Iknelt beside him for some minutes, and then made my way to Mr.Turner's lodge-keeper, his house being the nearest, to ask forassistance. I saw no one near my father when I returned, and I have noidea how he came by his injuries. He was not a popular man, beingsomewhat cold and forbidding in his manners; but he had, as far as Iknow, no active enemies. I know nothing further of the matter."The Coroner: Did your father make any statement to you before hedied?

　　Witness: He mumbled a few words, but I could only catch someallusion to a rat.

　　The Coroner: What did you understand by that?

　　Witness: It conveyed no meaning to me. I thought that he wasdelirious.

　　The Coroner: What was the point upon which you and your father hadthis final quarrel?

　　Witness: I should prefer not to answer.

　　The Coroner: I am afraid that I must press it.

　　Witness: It is really impossible for me to tell you. I can assureyou that it has nothing to do with the sad tragedy which followed.The Coroner: That is for the court to decide. I need not point outto you that your refusal to answer will prejudice your caseconsiderably in any future proceedings which may arise.Witness: I must still refuse.

　　The Coroner: I understand that the cry of 'Cooee' was a commonsignal between you and your father?

　　Witness: It was.

　　The Coroner: How was it, then, that he uttered it before he saw you,and before he even knew that you had returned from Bristol?Witness (with considerable confusion): I do not know.

　　A Juryman: Did you see nothing which aroused your suspicions whenyou returned on hearing the cry and found your father fatally injured?Witness: Nothing definite.

　　The Coroner: What do you mean?

　　Witness: I was so disturbed and excited as I rushed out into theopen, that I could think of nothing except of my father. Yet I havea vague impression that as I ran forward something lay upon the groundto the left of me. It seemed to me to be something gray in colour, acoat of some sort, or a plaid perhaps. When I rose from my father Ilooked round for it, but it was gone.

　　"Do you mean that it disappeared before you went for help?""Yes, it was gone."

　　"You cannot say what it was?"

　　"No, I had a feeling something was there."

　　"How far from the body?"

　　"A dozen yards or so."

　　"And how far from the edge of the wood?"

　　"About the same."

　　"Then if it was removed it was while you were within a dozen yardsof it?"

　　"Yes, but with my back towards it."

　　This concluded the examination of the witness.

　　"I see," said I as I glanced down the column, "that the coroner inhis concluding remarks was rather severe upon young McCarthy. He callsattention, and with reason, to the discrepancy about his father havingsignalled to him before seeing him, also to his refusal to givedetails of his conversation with his father, and his singularaccount of his father's dying words. They are all, as he remarks, verymuch against the son."

　　Holmes laughed softly to himself and stretched himself out uponthe cushioned seat. "Both you and the coroner have been at somepains," said he, "to single out the very strongest points in the youngman's favour. Don't you see that you alternately give him credit forhaving too much imagination and too little? Too little, if he couldnot invent a cause of quarrel which would give him the sympathy of thejury; too much, if he evolved from his own inner consciousnessanything so outre as a dying reference to a rat, and the incident ofthe vanishing cloth. No, sir, I shall approach this case from thepoint of view that what this young man says is true, and we shallsee whither that hypothesis will lead us. And now here is my pocketPetrarch, and not another word shall I say of this case until we areon the scene of action. We lunch at Swindon, and I see that we shallbe there in twenty minutes."

　　It was nearly four o'clock when we at last, after passing throughthe beautiful Stroud Valley, and over the broad gleaming Severn, foundourselves at the pretty little country-town of Ross. A leanferret-like man, furtive and sly-looking, was waiting for us uponthe platform. In spite of the light brown dustcoat and leatherleggings which he wore in deference to his rustic surroundings, Ihad no difficulty in recognizing Lestrade, of Scotland Yard. Withhim we drove to the Hereford Arms where a room had already beenengaged for us.

　　"I have ordered a carriage," said Lestrade as we sat over a cup oftea. "I knew your energetic nature, and that you would not be happyuntil you had been on the scene of the crime."

　　"It was very nice and complimentary of you," Holmes answered. "It isentirely a question of barometric pressure."

　　Lestrade looked startled. "I do not quite follow," he said."How is the glass? Twenty-nine, I see. No wind, and not a cloud inthe sky. I have a caseful of cigarettes here which need smoking, andthe sofa is very much superior to the usual country hotel abomination.I do not think that it is probable that I shall use the carriageto-night."

　　Lestrade laughed indulgently. "You have, no doubt, already formedyour conclusions from the newspapers," he said. "The case is asplain as a pikestaff, and the more one goes into it the plainer itbecomes. Still, of course, one can't refuse a lady, and such a verypositive one, too. She had heard of you, and would have youropinion, though I repeatedly told her that there was nothing which youcould do which I had not already done. Why, bless my soul! here is hercarriage at the door."

　　He had hardly spoken before there rushed into the room one of themost lovely young women that I have ever seen in my life. Her violeteyes shining, her lips parted, a pink flush upon her cheeks, allthought of her natural reserve lost in her overpowering excitement andconcern.

　　"Oh, Mr. Sherlock Holmes!" she cried, glancing from one to the otherof us, and finally, with a woman's quick intuition, fastening uponmy companion, "I am so glad that you have come. I have driven downto tell you so. I know that James didn't do it. I know it, and Iwant you to start upon your work knowing it, too. Never let yourselfdoubt upon that point. We have known each other since we were littlechildren, and I know his faults as no one else does; but he is tootenderhearted to hurt a fly. Such a charge is absurd to anyone whoreally knows him."

　　"I hope we may clear him, Miss Turner," said Sherlock Holmes. "Youmay rely upon my doing all that I can."

　　"But you have read the evidence, You have formed some conclusion? Doyou not see some loophole, some flaw? Do you not yourself think thathe is innocent?"

　　"I think that it is very probable."

　　"There, now!" she cried, throwing back her head and lookingdefiantly at Lestrade. "You hear! He gives me hopes."

　　Lestrade shrugged his shoulders. "I am afraid that my colleaguehas been a little quick in forming his conclusions," he said."But he is right. Oh! I know that he is right. James never did it.And about his quarrel with his father, I am sure that the reason whyhe would not speak about it to the coroner was because I was concernedin it."

　　"In what way?" asked Holmes.

　　"It is no time for me to hide anything. James and his father hadmany disagreements about me. Mr. McCarthy was very anxious thatthere should be a marriage between us. James and I have always lovedeach other as brother and sister; but of course he is young and hasseen very little of life yet, and-and-well, he naturally did notwish to do anything like that yet. So there were quarrels, and this, Iam sure, was one of them."

　　"And your father?" asked Holmes. "Was he in favour of such a union?""No, he was averse to it also. No one but Mr. McCarthy was in favourof it." A quick blush passed over her fresh young face as Holmesshot one of his keen, questioning glances at her.

　　"Thank you for this information," said he. "May I see your father ifI call tomorrow?"

　　"I am afraid the doctor won't allow it."

　　"The doctor?"

　　"Yes, have you not heard? Poor father has never been strong foryears back, but this has broken him down completely. He has taken tohis bed, and Dr. Willows says that he is a wreck and that hisnervous system is shattered. Mr. McCarthy was the only man alive whohad known dad in the old days in Victoria."

　　"Ha! In Victoria! That is important."

　　"Yes, at the mines."

　　"Quite so; at the gold-mines, where, as I understand, Mr. Turnermade his money."

　　"Yes, certainly."

　　"Thank you, Miss Turner. You have been of material assistance tome."

　　"You will tell me if you have any news to-morrow. No doubt youwill go to the prison to see James. Oh, if you do, Mr. Holmes, do tellhim that I know him to be innocent."

　　"I will, Miss Turner."

　　"I must go home now, for dad is very ill, and he misses me so if Ileave him. Good-bye, and God help you in your undertaking." Shehurried from the room as impulsively as she had entered, and weheard the wheels of her carriage rattle off down the street."I am ashamed of you, Holmes," said Lestrade with dignity after afew minutes' silence. "Why should you raise up hopes which you arebound to disappoint? I am not over-tender of heart, but I call itcruel."

　　"I think that I see my way to clearing James McCarthy," said Holmes."Have you an order to see him in prison?"

　　"Yes, but only for you and me."

　　"Then I shall reconsider my resolution about going out. We havestill time to take a train to Hereford and see him to-night?""Ample."

　　"Then let us do so. Watson, I fear that you will find it veryslow, but I shall only be away a couple of hours."

　　I walked down to the station with them, and then wandered throughthe streets of the little town, finally returning to the hotel,where I lay upon the sofa and tried to interest myself in ayellow-backed novel. The puny plot of the story was so thin,however, when compared to the deep mystery through which we weregroping, and I found my attention wander so continually from thefiction to the fact, that I at last flung it across the room andgave myself up entirely to a consideration of the events of the day.Supposing that this unhappy young man's story were absolutely true,then what hellish thing, what absolutely unforeseen andextraordinary calamity could have occurred between the time when heparted from his father, and the moment when, drawn back by hisscreams, he rushed into the glade? It was something terrible anddeadly. What could it be? Might not the nature of the injuriesreveal something to my medical instincts? I rang the bell and calledfor the weekly county paper, which contained a verbatim account of theinquest. In the surgeon's deposition it was stated that theposterior third of the left parietal bone and the left half of theoccipital bone had been shattered by a heavy blow from a blunt weapon.I marked the spot upon my own head. Clearly such a blow must have beenstruck from behind. That was to some extent in favour of theaccused, as when seen quarrelling he was face to face with his father.Still, it did not go for very much, for the older man might haveturned his back before the blow fell. Still, it might be worth whileto call Holmes's attention to it. Then there was the peculiar dyingreference to a rat. What could that mean? It could not be delirium.A man dying from a sudden blow does not commonly become delirious. No,it was more likely to be an attempt to explain how he met his fate.But what could it indicate? I cudgelled my brains to find somepossible explanation. And then the incident of the gray cloth seenby young McCarthy. If that were true the murderer must have droppedsome part of his dress, presumably his overcoat, in his flight andmust have had the hardihood to return and to carry it away at theinstant when the son was kneeling with his back turned not a dozenpaces off. What a tissue of mysteries and improbabilities the wholething was! I did not wonder at Lestrade's opinion, and yet I had somuch faith in Sherlock Holmes's insight that I could not lose hopeas long as every fresh fact seemed to strengthen his conviction ofyoung McCarthy's innocence.

　　It was late before Sherlock Holmes returned. He came back alone, forLestrade was staying in lodgings in the town.

　　"The glass still keeps very high," he remarked as he sat down. "Itis of importance that it should not rain before we are able to go overthe ground. On the other hand, a man should be at his very best andkeenest for such nice work as that, and I did not wish to do it whenfagged by a long journey. I have seen young McCarthy."

　　"And what did you learn from him?"

　　"Nothing."

　　"Could he throw no light?"

　　"None at all. I was inclined to think at one time that he knew whohad done it and was screening him or her, but I am convinced nowthat he is as puzzled as everyone else. He is not a veryquick-witted youth, though comely to look at and, I should think,sound at heart."

　　"I cannot admire his taste," I remarked, "if it is indeed a factthat he was averse to a marriage with so charming a young lady as thisMiss Turner."

　　"Ah, thereby hangs a rather painful tale. This fellow is madly,insanely, in love with her, but some two years ago, when he was only alad, and before he really knew her, for she had been away five yearsat a boarding-school, what does the idiot do but get into the clutchesof a barmaid in Bristol and marry her at a registry office? No oneknows a word of the matter, but you can imagine how maddening itmust be to him to be upbraided for not doing what he would give hisvery eyes to do, but what he knows to be absolutely impossible. It wassheer frenzy of this sort which made him throw his hands up into theair when his father, at their last interview, was goading him on topropose to Miss Turner. On the other hand, he had no means ofsupporting himself, and his father, who was by all accounts a veryhard man, would have thrown him over utterly had he known the truth.It was with his barmaid wife that he had spent the last three daysin Bristol, and his father did not know where he was. Mark that point.It is of importance. Good has come out of evil, however, for thebarmaid, finding from the papers that he is in serious trouble andlikely to be hanged, has thrown him over utterly and has written tohim to say that she has a husband already in the Bermuda Dockyard,so that there is really no tie between them. I think that of newshas consoled young McCarthy for all that he has suffered.""But if he is innocent, who has done it?"

　　"Ah! who? I would call your attention very particularly to twopoints. One is that the murdered man had an appointment with someoneat the pool, and that the someone could not have been his son, for hisson was away, and he did not know when he would return. The secondis that the murdered man was heard to cry 'Cooee!' before he knew thathis son had returned. Those are the crucial points upon which the casedepends. And now let us talk about George Meredith, if you please, andwe shall leave all minor matters until to-morrow."

　　There was no rain, as Holmes had foretold, and the morning brokebright and cloudless. At nine o'clock Lestrade called for us withthe carriage, and we set off for Hatherley Farm and the Boscombe Pool."There is serious news this morning," Lestrade observed. "It is saidthat Mr. Turner, of the Hall, is so ill that his life is despairedof."

　　"An elderly man, I presume?" said Holmes.

　　"About sixty; but his constitution has been shattered by his lifeabroad, and he has been in failing health for some time. This businesshas had a very bad effect upon him. He was an old friend ofMcCarthy's, and, I may add, a great benefactor to him, for I havelearned that he gave him Hatherley Farm rent free."

　　"Indeed! That is interesting," said Holmes.

　　"Oh, yes! In a hundred other ways he has helped him. Everybody abouthere speaks of his kindness to him."

　　"Really! Does it not strike you as a little singular that thisMcCarthy, who appears to have had little of his own, and to havebeen under such obligations to Turner, should still talk of marryinghis son to Turner's daughter, who is, presumably, heiress to theestate, and that in such a very cocksure manner, as if it weremerely a case of a proposal and all else would follow? It is themore strange, since we know that Turner himself was averse to theidea. The daughter told us as much. Do you not deduce something fromthat?"

　　"We have got to the deductions and the inferences," said Lestrade,winking at me. "I find it hard enough to tackle facts, Holmes, withoutflying away after theories and fancies."

　　"You are right," said Holmes demurely, "you do find it very hardto tackle the facts."

　　"Anyhow, I have grasped one fact which you seem to find it difficultto get hold of," replied Lestrade with some warmth.

　　"And that is-"

　　"That McCarthy senior met his death from McCarthy junior and thatall theories to the contrary are the merest moonshine.""Well, moonshine is a brighter thing than fog," said Holmes,laughing. "But I am very much mistaken if this is not Hatherley Farmupon the left."

　　"Yes, that is it." It was a widespread, comfortable-lookingbuilding, two-storied, slate-roofed, with great yellow blotches oflichen upon the gray walls. The drawn blinds and the smokelesschimneys, however, gave it a stricken look, as though the weight ofthis horror still lay heavy upon it. We called at the door, when themaid, at Holmes's request, showed us the boots which her master woreat the time of his death, and also a pair of the son's, though not thepair which he had then had. Having measured these very carefullyfrom seven or eight different points, Holmes desired to be led tothe court-yard, from which we all followed the winding track which ledto Boscombe Pool.

　　Sherlock Holmes was transformed when he was hot upon such a scent asthis. Men who had only known the quiet thinker and logician of BakerStreet would have failed to recognize him. His face flushed anddarkened. His brows were drawn into two hard black lines, while hiseyes shone out from beneath them with a steely glitter. His face wasbent downward, his shoulders bowed, his lips compressed, and the veinsstood out like whipcord in his long, sinewy neck. His nostrilsseemed to dilate with a purely animal lust for the chase, and his mindwas so absolutely concentrated upon the matter before him that aquestion or remark fell unheeded upon his ears, or, at the most,only provoked a quick, impatient snarl in reply. Swiftly andsilently he made his way along the track which ran through themeadows, and so by way of the woods to the Boscombe Pool. It was damp,marshy ground, as is all that district, and there were marks of manyfeet, both upon the path and amid the short grass which bounded iton either side. Sometimes Holmes would hurry on, sometimes stopdead, and once he made quite a little detour into the meadow. Lestradeand I walked behind him, the detective indifferent and contemptuous,while I watched my friend with the interest which sprang from theconviction that every one of his actions was directed towards adefinite end.

　　The Boscombe Pool, which is a little reed-girt sheet of water somefifty yards across, is situated at the boundary between theHatherley Farm and the private park of the wealthy Mr. Turner. Abovethe woods which lined it upon the farther side we could see the red,jutting pinnacles which marked the site of the rich landowner'sdwelling. On the Hatherley side of the pool the woods grew very thick,and there was a narrow belt of sodden grass twenty paces acrossbetween the edge of the trees and the reeds which lined the lake.Lestrade showed us the exact spot at which the body had been found,and, indeed, so moist was the ground, that I could plainly see thetraces which had been left by the fall of the stricken man. To Holmes,as I could see by his eager face and peering eyes, very many otherthings were to be read upon the trampled grass. He ran round, like adog who is picking up a scent, and then turned upon my companion."What did you go into the pool for?" he asked.

　　"I fished about with a rake. I thought there might be some weapon orother trace. But how on earth-"

　　"Oh, tut, tut! I have no time! That left foot of yours with itsinward twist is all over the place. A mole could trace it, and thereit vanishes among the reeds. Oh, how simple it would all have been hadI been here before they came like a herd of buffalo and wallowed allover it. Here is where the party with the lodge-keeper came, andthey have covered all tracks for six or eight feet round the body. Buthere are three separate tracks of the same feet." He drew out a lensand lay down upon his waterproof to have a better view, talking allthe time to himself rather than to us. "These are young McCarthy'sfeet. Twice he was walking, and once he ran swiftly, so that the solesare deeply marked and the heels hardly visible. That bears out hisstory. He ran when he saw his father on the ground. Then here arethe father's feet as he paced up and down. What is this, then? It isthe butt-end of the gun as the son stood listening. And this? Ha,ha! What have we here? Tiptoes! tiptoes! Square, too, quite unusualboots! They come, they go, they come again of course that was forthe cloak. Now where did they come from?" He ran up and down,sometimes losing, sometimes finding the track until we were wellwithin the edge of the wood and under the shadow of a great beech, thelargest tree in the neighbourhood. Holmes traced his way to thefarther side of this and lay down once more upon his face with alittle cry of satisfaction. For a long time he remained there, turningover the leaves and dried sticks, gathering up what seemed to me to bedust into an envelope and examining with his lens not only theground but even the bark of the tree as far as he could reach. Ajagged stone was lying among the moss, and this also he carefullyexamined and retained. Then he followed a pathway through the wooduntil he came to the highroad, where all traces were lost."It has been a case of considerable interest," he remarked,returning to his natural manner. "I fancy that this gray house onthe right must be the lodge. I think that I will go in and have a wordwith Moran, and perhaps write a little note. Having done that, wemay drive back to our luncheon. You may walk to the cab, and I shallbe with you presently."

　　It was about ten minutes before we regained our cab and drove backinto Ross, Holmes still carving with him the stone which he had pickedup in the wood.

　　"This may interest you, Lestrade," he remarked, holding it out. "Themurder was done with it."

　　"I see no marks."

　　"There are none."

　　"How do you know, then?"

　　"The grass was growing under it. It had only lain there a fewdays. There was no sign of a place whence it had been taken. Itcorresponds with the injuries. There is no sign of any other weapon.""And the murderer?"

　　"Is a tall man, left-handed, limps with the right leg, wearsthick-soled shooting boots and a gray cloak, smokes Indian cigars,uses a cigar-holder, and carries a blunt pen-knife in his pocket.There are several other indications, but these may be enough to aid usin our search."

　　Lestrade laughed. "I am afraid that I am still a sceptic," hesaid. "Theories are all very well, but we have to deal with ahard-headed British jury."

　　"Nous verrons," answered Holmes calmly. "You work your own method,and I shall work mine. I shall be busy this afternoon, and shallprobably return to London by the evening train."

　　"And leave your case unfinished?"

　　"No, finished."

　　"But the mystery?"

　　"It is solved."

　　"Who was the criminal, then?"

　　"The gentleman I describe."

　　"But who is he?"

　　"Surely it would not be difficult to find out. This is not such apopulous neighbourhood."

　　Lestrade shrugged his shoulders. "I am a practical man," he said,"and I really cannot undertake to go about the country looking for aleft-handed gentleman with a game-leg. I should become thelaughing-stock of Scotland Yard."

　　"All right," said Holmes quietly. "I have given you the chance. Hereare your lodgings. Good-bye. I shall drop you a line before I leave."Having left Lestrade at his rooms, we drove to our hotel, where wefound lunch upon the table. Holmes was silent and buried in thoughtwith a pained expression upon his face, as one who finds himself ina perplexing position.

　　"Look here, Watson," he said when the cloth was cleared; "just sitdown in this chair and let me preach to you for a little. I don't knowquite what to do, and I should value your advice. Light a cigar andlet me expound."

　　"Pray do so."

　　"Well, now, in considering this case there are two points aboutyoung McCarthy's narrative which struck us both instantly, althoughthey impressed me in his favour and you against him. One was thefact that his father should, according to his account, cry 'Cooee!'before seeing him. The other was his singular dying reference to arat. He mumbled several words, you understand, but that was all thatcaught the son's ear. Now from this double point our research mustcommence, and we will begin it by presuming that what the lad saysis absolutely true."

　　"What of this 'Cooee!' then?"

　　"Well, obviously it could not have been meant for the son. Theson, as far as he knew, was in Bristol. It was mere chance that he waswithin earshot. The 'Cooee!' was meant to attract the attention ofwhoever it was that he had the appointment with. But 'Cooee' is adistinctly Australian cry, and one which is used betweenAustralians. There is a strong presumption that the person whomMcCarthy expected to meet him at Boscombe Pool was someone who hadbeen in Australia."

　　"What of the rat, then?"

　　Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened itout on the table. "This is a map of the Colony of Victoria," hesaid. "I wired to Bristol for it last night." He put his hand overpart of the map. "What do you read?"

　　"ARAT," I read.

　　"And now?" He raised his hand.

　　"BALLARAT."

　　"Quite so. That was the word the man uttered, and of which his sononly caught the last two syllables. He was trying to utter the name ofhis murderer. So and so, of Ballarat."

　　"It is wonderful!" I exclaimed.

　　"It is obvious. And now, you see, I had narrowed the field downconsiderably. The possession of a gray garment was a third pointwhich, granting the son's statement to be correct, was a certainty. Wehave come now out of mere vagueness to the definite conception of anAustralian from Ballarat with a gray cloak."

　　"Certainly."

　　"And one who was at home in the district, for the pool can only beapproached by the farm or by the estate, where strangers couldhardly wander."

　　"Quite so."

　　"Then comes our expedition of to-day. By an examination of theground I gained the trifling details which I gave to that imbecileLestrade, as to the personality of the criminal."

　　"But how did you gain them?"

　　"You know my method. It is founded upon the observation of trifles.""His height I know that you might roughly judge from the length ofhis stride. His boots, too, might be told from their traces.""Yes, they were peculiar boots."

　　"But his lameness?"

　　"The impression of his right foot was always less distinct thanhis left. He put less weight upon it. Why? Because he limped-he waslame."

　　"But his left-handedness."

　　"You were yourself struck by the nature of the injury as recorded bythe surgeon at the inquest. The blow was struck from immediatelybehind, and yet was upon the left side. Now, how can that be unless itwere by a left-handed man? He had stood behind that tree during theinterview between the father and son. He had even smoked there. Ifound the ash of a cigar, which my special knowledge of tobaccoashes enables me to pronounce as an Indian cigar. I have, as you know,devoted some attention to this, and written a little monograph onthe ashes of 140 different varieties of pipe, cigar, and cigarettetobacco. Having found the ash, I then looked round and discoveredthe stump among the moss where he had tossed it. It was an Indiancigar, of the variety which are rolled in Rotterdam."

　　"And the cigar-holder?"

　　"I could see that the end had not been in his mouth. Therefore heused a holder. The tip had been cut off not bitten off, but the cutwas not a clean one, so I deduced a blunt pen-knife."

　　"Holmes," I said, "you have drawn a net round this man from which hecannot escape, and you have saved an innocent human life as truly asif you had cut the cord which was hanging him. I see the directionin which all this points. The culprit is-"

　　"Mr. John Turner," cried the hotel waiter, opening the door of oursitting-room, and ushering in a visitor.

　　The man who entered was a strange and impressive figure. His slow,limping step and bowed shoulders gave the appearance of decrepitude,and yet his hard, deep-lined, craggy features, and his enormouslimbs showed that he was possessed of unusual strength of body andof character. His tangled beard, grizzled hair, and outstanding,drooping eyebrows combined to give an air of dignity and power tohis appearance, but his face was of an ashen white, while his lips andthe corners of his nostrils were tinged with a shade of blue. It wasclear to me at a glance that he was in the grip of some deadly andchronic disease.

　　"Pray sit down on the sofa," said Holmes gently. "You had my note?""Yes, the lodge-keeper brought it up. You said that you wished tosee me here to avoid scandal."

　　"I thought people would talk if I went to the Hall."

　　"And why did you wish to see me?" He looked across at my companionwith despair in his weary eyes, as though his question was alreadyanswered.

　　"Yes," said Holmes, answering the look rather than the words. "It isso. I know all about McCarthy."

　　The old man sank his face in his hands. "God help me!" he cried."But I would not have let the young man come to harm. I give you myword that I would have spoken out if it went against him at theAssizes."

　　"I am glad to hear you say so," said Holmes gravely.

　　"I would have spoken now had it not been for my dear girl. Itwould break her heart-it will break her heart when she hears that I amarrested."

　　"It may not come to that," said Holmes.

　　"What?"

　　"I am no official agent. I understand that it was your daughterwho required my presence here, and I am acting in her interests. YoungMcCarthy must be got off, however."

　　"I am a dying man," said old Turner. "I have had diabetes for years.My doctor says it is a question whether I shall live a month. Yet Iwould rather die under my own roof than in a jail."

　　Holmes rose and sat down at the table with his pen in his hand and abundle of paper before him. "Just tell us the truth," he said. "Ishall jot down the facts. You will sign it, and Watson here canwitness it. Then I could produce your confession at the last extremityto save young McCarthy. I promise you that I shall not use it unlessit is absolutely needed."

　　"It's as well," said the old man; "it's a question whether I shalllive to the Assizes, so it matters little to me, but I should wishto spare Alice the shock. And now I will make the thing clear toyou; it has been a long time in the acting, but will not take melong to tell."

　　"You didn't know this dead man, McCarthy. He was a devilincarnate. I tell you that. God keep you out of the clutches of such aman as he. His grip has been upon me these twenty years, and he hasblasted my life. I'll tell you first how I came to be in his power."It was in the early '60's at the diggings. I was a young chap then,hot-blooded and reckless, ready to turn my hand at anything; I gotamong bad companions, took to drink, had no luck with my claim, tookto the bush, and in a word became what you would call over here ahighway robber. There were six of us, and we had a wild, free lifeof it, sticking up a station from time to time, or stopping the wagonson the road to the diggings. Black Jack of Ballarat was the name Iwent under, and our party is still remembered in the colony as theBallarat Gang.

　　"One day a gold convoy came down from Ballust to Melbourne, and welay in wait for it and attacked it. There were six troopers and six ofus, so it was a close thing, but we emptied four of their saddles atthe first volley. Three of our boys were killed, however, before wegot the swag. I put my pistol to the head of the wagon-driver, who wasthis very man McCarthy. I wish to the Lord that I had though himshot him then, but I spared him, though I saw his wicked little eyesfixed on my face, as though to remember every feature. We got awaywith the gold, became wealthy men, and made our way over to Englandwithout being suspected. There I parted from my old pals anddetermined to settle down to a quiet and respectable life. I boughtthis estate, which chanced to be in the market, and I set myself to doa little with my money, to make up for the way in which I had earnedit. I married, too, and though my wife died young she left me mydear little Alice. Even when she was just a baby her wee hand seemedto lead me down the right path as nothing else had ever done. In aword, I turned over a new leaf and did my best to make up for thepast. All was going well when McCarthy laid his grip upon me."I had gone up to town about an investment, and I met him inRegent Street with hardly a coat to his back or a boot to his foot."'Here we are, Jack,' says he, touching me on the arm; 'we'll beas good as a family to you. There's two of us, me and my son, andyou can have the keeping of us. If you don't-it's a fine,law-abiding country is England, and there's always a policemanwithin hail.'

　　"Well, down they came to the west country, there was no shaking themoff, and there they have lived rent free on my best land ever since.There was no rest for me, no peace, no forgetfulness; turn where Iwould, there was his cunning, grinning face at my elbow. It grew worseas Alice grew up, for he soon saw I was more afraid of her knowing mypast than of the police. Whatever he wanted he must have, and whateverit was I gave him without question, land, money, houses, until at lasthe asked a thing which I could not give. He asked for Alice."His son, you see, had grown up, and so had my girl, and as I wasknown to be in weak health, it seemed a fine stroke to him that hislad should step into the whole property. But there I was firm. I wouldnot have his cursed stock mixed with mine; not that I had anydislike to the lad, but his blood was in him, and that was enough. Istood firm. McCarthy threatened. I braved him to do his worst. We wereto meet at the pool midway between our houses to talk it over."When I went down there I found him talking with his son, so Ismoked a cigar and waited behind a tree until he should be alone.But as I listened to his talk all that was black and bitter in meseemed, to come uppermost. He was urging his son to marry mydaughter with as little regard for what she might think as if she werea slut from off the streets. It drove me mad to think that I and allthat I held most dear should be in the power of such a man as this.Could I not snap the bond? I was already a dying and a desperateman. Though clear of mind and fairly strong of limb, I knew that myown fate was sealed. But my memory and my girl! Both could be saved ifI could but silence that foul tongue. I did it, Mr. Holmes."I would do it again. Deeply as I have sinned, I have led a lifeof martyrdom to atone for it. But that my girl should be entangledin the same meshes which held me was more than I could suffer. Istruck him down with no more compunction than if he had been some fouland venomous beast. His cry brought back his son; but I had gained thecover of the wood, though I was forced to go back to fetch the cloakwhich I had dropped in my flight. That is the true story, gentlemen,of all that occurred."

　　Well, it is not for me to judge you," said Holmes as the old mansigned the statement which had been drawn out. "I pray that we maynever be exposed to such a temptation."

　　"I pray not, sir. And what do you intend to do?"

　　"In view of your health, nothing. You are yourself aware that youwill soon have to answer for your deed at a higher court than theAssizes. I will keep your confession, and if McCarthy is condemned Ishall be forced to use it. If not, it shall never be seen by mortaleye; and your secret, whether you be alive or dead, shall be safe withus."

　　"Farewell, then," said the old man solemnly. "Your own deathbeds,when they come, will be the easier for the thought of the peacewhich you have given to mine." Tottering and shaking in all hisgiant frame, he stumbled slowly from the room.

　　"God help us!" said Holmes after a long silence. "Why does fate playsuch tricks with poor, helpless worms? I never hear of such a caseas this that I do not think of Baxter's words, and say, 'There, butfor the grace of God, goes Sherlock Holmes.'"

　　James McCarthy was acquitted at the Assizes on the strength of anumber of objections which had been drawn out by Holmes andsubmitted to the defending counsel. Old Turner lived for sevenmonths after our interview, but he is now dead; and there is everyprospect that the son and daughter may come to live happily togetherin ignorance of the black cloud which rests upon their past.-THE END-

　　.

　　1893

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE CROOKED MAN

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　The Crooked Man.

　　One summer night a few months after my marriage, I was seated bymy own hearth smoking a last pipe and nodding over a novel, for myday's work had been an exhausting one. My wife had already goneupstairs, and the sound of the locking of the hall door some timebefore told me that the servants had also retired. I had risen from myseat and was knocking out the ashes of my pipe when I suddenly heardthe clang of the bell.

　　I looked at the clock. It was a quarter to twelve. This could not bea visitor at so late an hour. A patient evidently, and possibly anall-night sitting. With a wry face I went out into the hall and openedthe door. To my astonishment it was Sherlock Holmes who stood uponmy step.

　　"Ah, Watson," said he, "I hoped that I might not be too late tocatch you."

　　"My dear fellow, pray come in."

　　"You look surprised, and no wonder! Relieved, too, I fancy! Hum! Youstill smoke the Arcadia mixture of your bachelor days, then! There'sno mistaking that fluffy ash upon your coat. It's easy to tell thatyou have been accustomed to wear a uniform, Watson. You'll neverpass as a pure-bred civilian as long as you keep that habit ofcarrying your handkerchief in your sleeve. Could you put me upto-night?"

　　"With pleasure."

　　"You told me that you had bachelor quarters for one, and I seethat you have no gentleman visitor at present. Your hat-standproclaims as much."

　　"I shall be delighted if you will stay."

　　"Thank you. I'll fill the vacant peg then. Sorry to see thatyou've had the British workman in the house. He's a token of evil. Notthe drains, I hope?"

　　"No, the gas."

　　"Ah! He has left two nail-marks from his boot upon your linoleumjust where the light strikes it. No, thank you, I had some supper atWaterloo, but I'll smoke a pipe with you with pleasure."I handed him my pouch, and he seated himself opposite to me andsmoked for some time in silence. I was well aware that nothing butbusiness of importance would have brought him to me at such an hour,so I waited patiently until he should come round to it."I see that you are professionally rather busy just now," said he,glancing very keenly across at me.

　　"Yes, I've had a busy day," I answered. "It may seem very foolish inyour eyes" I added, "but really I don't know how you deduced it."Holmes chuckled to himself.

　　"I have the advantage of knowing your habits, my dear Watson,"said he. "When your round is a short one you walk, and when it is along one you use a hansom. As I perceive that your boots, althoughused, are by no means dirty, I cannot doubt that you are at presentbusy enough to justify the hansom."

　　"Excellent!" I cried.

　　"Elementary," said he. "It is one of those instances where thereasoner can produce an effect which seems remarkable to hisneighbour, because the latter has missed the one little point which isthe basis of the deduction. The same may be said, my dear fellow,for the effect of some of these little sketches of yours, which isentirely meretricious, depending as it does upon your retaining inyour own hands some factors in the problem which are never imparted tothe reader. Now, at present I am in the position of these samereaders, for I hold in this hand several threads of one of thestrangest cases which ever perplexed a man's brain, and yet I lack theone or two which are needful to complete my theory. But I'll havethem, Watson, I'll have them!" His eyes kindled and a slight flushsprang into his thin cheeks. For an instant the veil had lifted uponhis keen, intense nature, but for an instant only. When I glancedagain his face had resumed that red-Indian composure which had made somany regard him as a machine rather than a man.

　　"The problem presents features of interest," said he. "I may evensay exceptional features of interest. I have already looked into thematter, and have come, as I think, within sight of my solution. If youcould accompany me in that last step you might be of considerableservice to me."

　　"I should be delighted."

　　"Could you go as far as Aldershot to-morrow?'

　　"I have no doubt Jackson would take my practice."

　　"Very good. I want to start by the 11:10 from Waterloo.""That would give me time."

　　"Then, if you are not too sleepy, I will give you a sketch of whathas happened, and of what remains to be done."

　　"I was sleepy before you came. I am quite wakeful now.""I will compress the story as far as may be done without omittinganything vital to the case. It is conceivable that you may even haveread some account of the matter. It is the supposed murder ofColonel Barclay, of the Royal Munsters, at Aldershot, which I aminvestigating."

　　"I have heard nothing of it."

　　"It has not excited much attention yet, except locally. The factsare only two days old. Briefly they are these:

　　"The Royal Munsters is, as you know, one of the most famous Irishregiments in the British Army. It did wonders both in the Crimea andthe Mutiny, and has since that time distinguished itself upon everypossible occasion. It was commanded up to Monday night by JamesBarclay, a gallant veteran, who started as a full private, wasraised to commissioned rank for his bravery at the time of the Mutiny,and so lived to command the regiment in which he had once carried amusket.

　　"Colonel Barclay had married at the time when he was a sergeant, andhis wife, whose maiden name was Miss Nancy Devoy, was the daughterof a former colour sergeant in the same corps. There was, therefore,as can be imagined, some little social friction when the youngcouple (for they were still young) found themselves in their newsurroundings. They appear, however, to have quickly adaptedthemselves, and Mrs. Barclay has always, I understand, been as popularwith the ladies of the regiment as her husband was with his brotherofficers. I may add that she was a woman of great beauty, and thateven now, when she has been married for of a striking and queenlyappearance.

　　"Colonel Barclay's family life appears to have been a uniformlyhappy one. Major Murphy, to whom I owe most of my facts, assures methat he has never heard of any misunderstanding between the pair. Onthe whole, he thinks that Barclay's devotion to his wife was greaterthan his wife's to Barclay. He was acutely uneasy if he were absentfrom her for a day. She, on the other hand, though devoted andfaithful, was less obtrusively affectionate. But they were regarded inthe regiment as the very model of a middle-aged couple. There wasabsolutely nothing in their mutual relations to prepare people for thetragedy which was to follow.

　　"Colonel Barclay himself seems to have had some singular traits inhis character. He was a dashing, jovial old soldier in his usual mood,but there were occasions on which he seemed to show himself capable ofconsiderable violence and vindictiveness. This side of his nature,however, appears never to have been turned towards his wife. Anotherfact which had struck Major Murphy and three out of five of theother officers with whom I conversed was the singular sort ofdepression which came upon him at times. As the major expressed it,the smile has often been struck from his mouth, as if by someinvisible hand, when he has been joining in the gaieties and chaffof the mess-table. For days on end, when the mood was on him, he hasbeen sunk in the deepest gloom. This and a certain tinge ofsuperstition were the only unusual traits in his character which hisbrother officers had observed. The latter peculiarity took the form ofa dislike to being left alone, especially after dark. This puerilefeature in a nature which was conspicuously manly had often given riseto comment and conjecture.

　　"The first battalion of the Royal Munsters (which is the old OneHundred and Seventeenth) has been stationed at Aldershot for someyears. The married officers live out of barracks, and the colonelhas during all this time occupied a villa called 'Lachine,' about halfa mile from the north camp. The house stands in its own grounds, butthe west side of it is not more than thirty yards from the highroad. Acoachman and two maids form the staff of servants. These with theirmaster and mistress were the sole occupants of Lachine, for theBarclays had no children, nor was it usual for them to have residentvisitors.

　　"Now for the events at Lachine between nine and ten on the eveningof last Monday.

　　"Mrs. Barclay was, it appears, a member of the Roman Catholic Churchand had interested herself very much in the establishment of the Guildof St. George, which was formed in connection with the Watt StreetChapel for the purpose of supplying the poor with cast-off clothing. Ameeting of the Guild had been held that evening at eight, and Mrs.Barclay had hurried over her dinner in order to be present at it. Whenleaving the house she was heard by the coachman to make somecommonplace remark to her husband, and to assure him that she would beback before very long. She then called for Miss Morrison, a young ladywho lives in the next villa and the two went off together to theirmeeting. It lasted forty minutes, and at a quarter-past nine Mrs.Barclay returned home, having left Miss Morrison at her door as shepassed.

　　"There is a room which is used as a morning-room at Lachine. Thisfaces the road and opens by a large glass folding-door on to the lawn.The lawn is thirty yards across and is only divided from the highwayby a low wall with an iron rail above it. It was into this room thatMrs. Barclay went upon her return. The blinds were not down, for theroom was seldom used in the evening, but Mrs. Barclay herself litthe lamp and then rang the bell, asking Jane Stewart, the housemaid,to bring her a cup of tea, which was quite contrary to her usualhabits. The colonel had been sitting in the dining-room, but,hearing that his wife had returned, he joined her in the morning-room.The coachman saw him cross the hall and enter it. He was never seenagain alive.

　　"The tea which had been ordered was brought up at the end of tenminutes; but the maid, as she approached the door, was surprised tohear the voices of her master and mistress in furious altercation. Sheknocked without receiving any answer, and even turned the handle,but only to find that the door was locked upon the inside. Naturallyenough she ran down to tell the cook, and the two women with thecoachman came up into the hall and listened to the dispute which wasstill raging. They all agreed that only two voices were to be heard,those of Barclay and of his wife. Barclay's remarks were subdued andabrupt so that none of them were audible to the listeners. The lady's,on the other hand, were most bitter, and when she raised her voicecould be plainly heard. 'You coward' she repeated over and over again.'What can be done now? What can be done now? Give me back my life. Iwill never so much as breathe the same air with you again! Youcoward You coward' Those were scraps of her conversation, ending ina sudden dreadful cry in the man's voice, with a crash, and a piercingscream from the woman. Convinced that some tragedy had occurred, thecoachman rushed to the door and strove to force it, while scream afterscream issued from within. He was unable, however, to make his way in,and the maids were too distracted with fear to be of any assistance tohim. A sudden thought struck him, however, and he ran through the halldoor and round to the lawn upon which the long French windows open.One side of the window was open, which I understand was quite usual inthe summertime, and he passed without difficulty into the room. Hismistress had ceased to scream and was stretched insensible upon acouch, while with his feet tilted over the side of an armchair, andhis head upon the ground near the corner of the fender, was lyingthe unfortunate soldier stone dead in a pool of his own blood."Naturally, the coachman's first thought, on finding that he coulddo nothing for his master, was to open the door. But here anunexpected and singular difficulty presented itself. The key was notin the inner side of the door, nor could he find it anywhere in theroom. He went out again, therefore, through the window, and, havingobtained the help of a policeman and of a medical man, he returned.The lady, against whom naturally the strongest suspicion rested, wasremoved to her room, still in a state of insensibility. Thecolonel's body was then placed upon the sofa and a careful examinationmade of the scene of the tragedy.

　　"The injury from which the unfortunate veteran was suffering wasfound to be a jagged cut some two inches long at the back part ofhis head, which had evidently been caused by a violent blow from ablunt weapon. Nor was it difficult to guess what that weapon mayhave been. Upon the floor, close to the body, was lying a singularclub of hard carved wood with a bone handle. The colonel possessed avaried collection of weapons brought from the different countries inwhich he had fought, and it is conjectured by the police that thisclub was among his trophies. The servants deny having seen itbefore, but among the numerous curiosities in the house it is possiblethat it may have been overlooked. Nothing else of importance wasdiscovered in the room by the police, save the inexplicable factthat neither upon Mrs. Barclay's person nor upon that of the victimnor in any part of the room was the missing key to be found. Thedoor had eventually to be opened by a locksmith from Aldershot."That was the state of things, Watson, when upon the Tuesday morningI, at the request of Major Murphy, went down to Aldershot tosupplement the efforts of the police. I think that you willacknowledge that the problem was already one of interest but myobservations soon made me realize that it was in truth much moreextraordinary than would at first sight appear.

　　"Before examining the room I cross-questioned the servants, but onlysucceeded in eliciting the facts which I have already stated. Oneother detail of interest was remembered by Jane Stewart, thehousemaid. You will remember that on hearing the sound of thequarrel she descended and returned with the other servants. On thatfirst occasion, when she was alone, she says that the voices of hermaster and mistress were sunk so low that she could hardly hearanything, and judged by their tones rather than their words thatthey had fallen out. On my pressing her, however, she rememberedthat she heard the word David uttered twice by the lady. The pointis of the utmost importance as guiding us towards the reason of thesudden quarrel. The colonel's name, you remember, was James."There was one thing in the case which had made the deepestimpression both upon the servants and the police. This was thecontortion of the colonel's face. It had set, according to theiraccount, into the most dreadful expression of fear and horror whicha human countenance is capable of assuming. More than one personfainted at the mere sight of him, so terrible was the effect. It wasquite certain that he had foreseen his fate, and that it had causedhim the utmost horror. This, of course, fitted in well enough with thepolice theory, if the colonel could have seen his wife making amurderous attack upon him. Nor was the fact of the wound being onthe back of his head a fatal objection to this, as he might haveturned to avoid the blow. No information could be got from the ladyherself, who was temporarily insane from an acute attack ofbrain-fever.

　　"From the police I learned that Miss Morrison, who you remember wentout that evening with Mrs. Barclay, denied having any knowledge ofwhat it was which had caused the ill-humour in which her companion hadreturned.

　　"Having gathered these facts, Watson, I smoked several pipes overthem, trying to separate those which were crucial from others whichwere merely incidental. There could be no question that the mostdistinctive and suggestive point in the case was the singulardisappearance of the door-key. A most careful search had failed todiscover it in the room. Therefore it must have been taken from it.But neither the colonel nor the colonel's wife could have taken it.That was perfectly clear. Therefore a third person must have enteredthe room. And that third person could only have come in through thewindow. It seemed to me that a careful examination of the room and thelawn might possibly reveal some traces of this mysteriousindividual. You know my methods, Watson. There was not one of themwhich I did not apply to the inquiry. And it ended by my discoveringtraces, but very different ones from those which I had expected. Therehad been a man in the room, and he had crossed the lawn coming fromthe road. I was able to obtain five very clear impressions of hisfootmarks: one in the roadway itself, at the point where he hadclimbed the low wall, two on the lawn, and two very faint ones uponthe stained boards near the window where he had entered. He hadapparently rushed across the lawn, for his toe-marks were muchdeeper than his heels. But it was not the man who surprised me. It washis companion."

　　"His companion!"

　　Holmes pulled a large sheet of tissue-paper out of his pocket andcarefully unfolded it upon his knee.

　　"What do you make of that?" he asked.

　　The paper was covered with the tracings of the footmarks of somesmall animal. It had five well-marked footpads, an indication oflong nails, and the whole print might be nearly as large as adessert-spoon.

　　"It's a dog," said I.

　　"Did you ever hear of a dog running up a curtain? I found distincttraces that this creature had done so."

　　"A monkey, then?'

　　"But it is not the print of a monkey."

　　"What can it be, then?"

　　"Neither dog nor cat nor monkey nor any creature that we arefamiliar with. I have tried to reconstruct it from the measurements.Here are four prints where the beast has been standing motionless. Yousee that it is no less than fifteen inches from fore-foot to hind. Addto that the length of neck and head, and you get a creature not muchless than two feet long-probably more if there is any tail. But nowobserve this other measurement. The animal has been moving, and wehave the length of its stride. In each case it is only about threeinches. You have an indication, you see, of a long body with veryshort legs attached to it. It has not been considerate enough to leaveany of its hair behind it. But its general shape must be what I haveindicated, and it can run up a curtain, and it is carnivorous.""How do you deduce that?"

　　"Because it ran up the curtain. A canary's cage was hanging in thewindow, and its aim seems to have been to get at the bird.""Then what was the beast?"

　　"Ah, if I could give it a name it might go a long way towardssolving the case. On the whole, it was probably some creature of theweasel and stoat tribe-and yet it is larger than any of these that Ihave seen."

　　"But what had it to do with the crime?"

　　"That, also, is still obscure. But we have learned a good deal,you perceive. We know that a man stood in the road looking at thequarrel between the Barclays-the blinds were up and the roomlighted. We know, also, that he ran across the lawn, entered the room,accompanied by a strange animal, and that he either struck the colonelor, as is equally possible, that the colonel fell down from sheerfright at the sight of him, and cut his head on the corner of thefender. Finally we have the curious fact that the intruder carriedaway the key with him when he left."

　　"Your discoveries seem to have left the business more obscure thanit was before," said I.

　　"Quite so. They undoubtedly showed that the affair was much deeperthan was at first conjectured. I thought the matter over, and I cameto the conclusion that I must approach the case from another aspect.But really, Watson, I am keeping you up, and I might just as well tellyou all this on our way to Aldershot to-morrow."

　　"Thank you, you have gone rather too far to stop.'

　　"It is quite certain that when Mrs. Barclay left the house athalf-past seven she was on good terms with her husband. She was never,as I think I have said, ostentatiously affectionate, but she was heardby the coachman chatting with the colonel in a friendly fashion.Now, it was equally certain that, immediately on her return, she hadgone to the room in which she was least likely to see her husband, hadflown to tea as an agitated woman will, and finally, on his comingin to her, had broken into violent recriminations. Therefore somethinghad occurred between seven-thirty and nine o'clock which hadcompletely altered her feelings towards him. But Miss Morrison hadbeen with her during the whole of that hour and a half. It wasabsolutely certain, therefore, in spite of her denial, that she mustknow something of the matter.

　　"My first conjecture was that possibly there had been somepassages between this young lady and the old soldier, which the formerhad now confessed to the wife. That would account for the angryreturn, and also for the girl's denial that anything had occurred. Norwould it be entirely incompatible with most of the words overheard.But there was the reference to David, and there was the knownaffection of the colonel for his wife to weigh against it, to saynothing of the tragic intrusion of this other man, which might, ofcourse, be entirely disconnected with what had gone before. It was noteasy to pick one's steps, but, on the whole, I was inclined to dismissthe idea that there had been anything between the colonel and MissMorrison, but more than ever convinced that the young lady held theclue as to what it was which had turned Mrs. Barclay to hatred ofher husband. I took the obvious course, therefore, of calling uponMiss M., of explaining to her that I was perfectly certain that sheheld the facts in her possession, and of assuring her that her friend,Mrs. Barclay, might find herself in the dock upon a capital chargeunless the matter were cleared up.

　　"Miss Morrison is a little ethereal slip of a girl, with timideyes and blond hair, but I found her by no means wanting in shrewdnessand common sense. She sat thinking for some time after I had spoken,and then, turning to me with a brisk air of resolution, she broke intoa remarkable statement which I will condense for your benefit."'I promised my friend that I would say nothing of the matter, and apromise is a promise,' said she; 'but if I can really help her when soserious a charge is laid against her, and when her own mouth, poordarling, is closed by illness, then I think I am absolved from mypromise. I will tell you exactly what happened upon Monday evening."'We were returning from the Watt Street Mission about a quarterto nine o'clock. On our way we had to pass through Hudson Street,which is a very quiet thoroughfare. There is only one lamp in it, uponthe left-hand side, and as we approached this lamp I saw a mancoming towards us with his back very bent, and something like a boxslung over one of his shoulders. He appeared to be deformed, for hecarried his head low and walked with his knees bent. We were passinghim when he raised his face to look at us in the circle of lightthrown by the lamp, and as he did so he stopped and screamed out ina dreadful voice, "My God, it's Nancy!" Mrs. Barclay turned as whiteas death and would have fallen down had the dreadful-lookingcreature not caught hold of her. I was going to call for the police,but she, to my surprise, spoke quite civilly to the fellow."'"I thought you had been dead this thirty years, Henry," said shein a shaking voice.

　　"'"So I have," said he, and it was awful to hear the tones that hesaid it in. He had a very dark, fearsome face, and a gleam in his eyesthat comes back to me in my dreams. His hair and whiskers were shotwith gray, and his face was all crinkled and Puckered like awithered apple.

　　"'"Just walk on a little way, dear," said Mrs. Barclay, "I want tohave a word with this man. There is nothing to be afraid of." Shetried to speak boldly, but she was still deadly pale and couldhardly get her words out for the trembling of her lips."'I did as she asked me, and they talked together for a few minutes.Then she came down the street with her eyes blazing, and I saw thecrippled wretch standing by the lamp-post and shaking his clenchedfists in the air as if he were mad with rage. She never said a worduntil we were at the door here, when she took me by the hand andbegged me to tell no one what had happened.

　　"'"It's an old acquaintance of mine who has come down in the world,"said she. When I promised her I would say nothing she kissed me, and Ihave never seen her since. I have told you now the whole truth, and ifI withheld it from the police it is because I did not realize then thedanger in which my dear friend stood. I know that it can only be toher advantage that everything should be known.'

　　"There was her statement, Watson, and to me, as you can imagine,it was like a light on a dark night. Everything which had beendisconnected before began at once to assume its true place, and Ihad a shadowy presentiment of the whole sequence of events. My nextstep obviously was to find the man who had produced such aremarkable impression upon Mrs. Barclay. If he were still in Aldershotit should not be a very difficult matter. There are not such a verygreat number of civilians, and a deformed man was sure to haveattracted attention. I spent a day in the search, and byevening-this very evening, Watson-I had run him down. The man's nameis Henry Wood, and he lives in lodgings in this same street in whichthe ladies met him. He has only been five days in the place. In thecharacter of a registration-agent I had a most interesting gossip withhis landlady. The man is by trade a conjurer and performer, goinground the canteens after nightfall, and giving a littleentertainment at each. He carries some creature about with him in thatbox, about which the landlady seemed to be in considerabletrepidation, for she had never seen an animal like it. He uses it insome of his tricks according to her account. So much the woman wasable to tell me, and also that it was a wonder the man lived, seeinghow twisted he was, and that he spoke in a strange tongue sometimes,and that for the last two nights she had heard him groaning andweeping in his bedroom. He was all right, as far as money went, but inhis deposit he had given her what looked like a bad florin. She showedit to me, Watson, and it was an Indian rupee.

　　"So now, my dear fellow, you see exactly how we stand and why itis I want you. It is perfectly plain that after the ladies parted fromthis man he followed them at a distance, that he saw the quarrelbetween husband and wife through the window, that he rushed in, andthat the creature which he carried in his box got loose. That is allvery certain. But he is the only person in this world who can tellus exactly what happened in that room."

　　"And you intend to ask him?"

　　"Most certainly-but in the presence of a witness."

　　"And I am the witness?"

　　"If you will be so good. If he can clear the matter up, well andgood. If he refuses, we have no alternative but to apply for awarrant."

　　"But how do you know he'll be there when we return?"

　　"You may be sure that I took some precautions. I have one of myBaker Street boys mounting guard over him who would stick to himlike a burr, go where he might. We shall find him in Hudson Streetto-morrow, Watson, and meanwhile I should be the criminal myself ifI kept you out of bed any longer."

　　It was midday when we found ourselves at the scene of the tragedy,and, under my companion's guidance, we made our way at once toHudson Street. In spite of his capacity for concealing his emotions, Icould easily see that Holmes was in a state of suppressed excitementwhile I was myself tingling with that half-sporting, half-intellectualpleasure which I invariably experienced when I associated myselfwith him in his investigations.

　　"This is the street," said he as we turned into a short thoroughfarelined with plain two-storied brick houses. "Ah, here is Simpson toreport."

　　"He's in all right, Mr. Holmes," cried a small street Arab,running up to us.

　　"Good, Simpson!" said Holmes, patting him on the head. "Comealong, Watson. This is the house." He sent in his card with amessage that he had come on important business, and a moment laterwe were face to face with the man whom we had come to see. In spite ofthe warm weather he was crouching over a fire, and the little room waslike an oven. The man sat all twisted and huddled in his chair in away which gave an indescribable impression of deformity, but theface which he turned towards us, though worn and swarthy, must at sometime have been remarkable for its beauty. He looked suspiciously at usnow out of yellow-shot, bilious eyes, and, without speaking or rising,he waved towards two chairs.

　　"Mr. Henry Wood, late of India, I believe," said Holmes affably."I've come over this little matter of Colonel Barclay's death.""What should I know about that?"

　　"That's what I want to ascertain. You know, I suppose, that unlessthe matter is cleared up, Mrs. Barclay, who is an old friend of yours,will in all probability be tried for murder."

　　The man gave a violent start.

　　"I don't know who you are," he cried, "nor how you come to know whatyou do know, but will you swear that this is true that you tell me?""Why, they are only waiting for her to come to her senses toarrest her."

　　"My God! Are you in the police yourself?"

　　"No."

　　"What business is it of yours, then?"

　　"It's every man's business to see justice done."

　　"You can take my word that she is innocent."

　　"Then you are guilty."

　　"No, I am not."

　　"Who killed Colonel James Barclay, then?"

　　"It was a just Providence that killed him. But, mind you this,that if I had knocked his brains out, as it was in my heart to do,he would have had no more than his due from my hands. If his ownguilty conscience had not struck him down it is likely enough that Imight have had his blood upon my soul. You want me to tell thestory. Well, I don't know why I shouldn't, for there's no cause for meto be ashamed of it.

　　"It was in this way, sir. You see me now with my back like a cameland my ribs all awry, but there was a time when Corporal Henry Woodwas the smartest man in the One Hundred and Seventeenth foot. Wewere in India, then, in cantonments, at a place we'll call Bhurtee.Barclay, who died the other day, was sergeant in the same company asmyself, and the belle of the regiment, ay, and the finest girl thatever had the breath of life between her lips, was Nancy Devoy, thedaughter of the colour-sergeant. There were two men that loved her,and one that she loved, and you'll smile when you look at this poorthing huddled before the fire and hear me say that it was for mygood looks that she loved me.

　　"Well, though I had her heart, her father was set upon hermarrying Barclay. I was a harum-scarum, reckless lad, and he had hadan education and was already marked for the sword-belt. But the girlheld true to me, and it seemed that I would have had her when theMutiny broke out, and all hell was loose in the country."We were shut up in Bhurtee, the regiment of us with half abattery of artillery, a company of Sikhs, and a lot of civilians andwomen-folk. There were ten thousand rebels round us, and they wereas keen as a set of terriers round a rat-cage. About the second weekof it our water gave out, and it was a question whether we couldcommunicate with General Neill's column, which was movingup-country. It was our only chance, for we could not hope to fight ourway out with all the women and children, so I volunteered to go outand to warn General Neill of our danger. My offer was accepted, andI talked it over with Sergeant Barclay, who was supposed to know theground better than any other man, and who drew up a route by which Imight get through the rebel lines. At ten o'clock the same night Istarted off upon my journey. There were a thousand lives to save,but it was of only one that I was thinking when I dropped over thewall that night.

　　"My way ran down a dried-up water course, which we hoped wouldscreen me from the enemy's sentries; but as I crept round the cornerof it I walked right into six of them, who were crouching down inthe dark waiting for me. In an instant I was stunned with a blow andbound hand and foot. But the real blow was to my heart and not to myhead, for as I came to and listened to as much as I could understandof their talk, I heard enough to tell me that my comrade, the very manwho had arranged the way I was to take, had betrayed me by means ofa native servant into the hands of the enemy.

　　"Well, there's no need for me to dwell on that part of it. Youknow now what James Barclay was capable of. Bhurtee was relieved byNeill next day, but the rebels took me away with them in theirretreat, and it was many a long year before ever I saw a white faceagain. I was tortured and tried to get away, and was captured andtortured again. You can see for yourselves the state in which I wasleft. Some of them that fled into Nepal took me with them, and thenafterwards I was up past Darjeeling. The hill-folk up there murderedthe rebels who had me, and I became their slave for a time until Iescaped; but instead of going south I had to go north, until I foundmyself among the Afghans. There I wandered about for many a year,and at last came back to the Punjab, where I lived mostly among thenatives and picked up a living by the conjuring tricks that I hadlearned. What use was it for me, a wretched cripple, to go back toEngland or to make myself known to my old comrades? Even my wish forrevenge would not make me do that. I had rather that Nancy and myold pals should think of Harry Wood as having died with a straightback, than see him living and crawling with a stick like a chimpanzee.They never doubted that I was dead, and I meant that they nevershould. I heard that Barclay had married Nancy, and that he was risingrapidly in the regiment, but even that did not make me speak."But when one gets old one has a longing for home. For years I'vebeen dreaming of the bright green fields and the hedges of England. Atlast I determined to see them before I died. I saved enough to bringme across, and then I came here where the soldiers are, for I knowtheir ways and how to amuse them and so earn enough to keep me.""Your narrative is most interesting," said Sherlock Holmes. "Ihave already heard of your meeting with Mrs. Barclay, and yourmutual recognition. You then, as I understand, followed her home andsaw through the window an altercation between her husband and her,in which she doubtless cast his conduct to you in his teeth. Yourown feelings overcame you, and you ran across the lawn and broke inupon them."

　　"I did, sir, and at the sight of me he looked as I have never seen aman look before, and over he went with his head on the fender. Buthe was dead before he fell. I read death on his face as plain as I canread that text over the fire. The bare sight of me was like a bulletthrough his guilty heart."

　　"And then?"

　　"Then Nancy fainted, and I caught up the key of the door from herhand, intending to unlock it and get help. But as I was doing it to mebetter to leave it alone and get away, for the thing might lookblack against me, and anyway my secret would be out if I were taken.In my haste I thrust the key into my pocket, and dropped my stickwhile I was chasing Teddy, who had run up the curtain. When I gothim into his box, from which he had slipped, I was off as fast as Icould run."

　　"Who's Teddy?" asked Holmes.

　　The man leaned over and pulled up the front of a kind of hutch inthe corner. In an instant out there slipped a beautifulreddish-brown creature, thin and lithe, with the legs of a stoat, along, thin nose, and a pair of the finest red eyes that ever I sawin an animal's head.

　　"It's a mongoose," I cried.

　　"Well, some call them that and some call them ichneumon," said theman. "Snake-catcher is what I call them, and Teddy is amazing quick oncobras. I have one here without the fangs, and Teddy catches itevery night to please the folk in the canteen."

　　"Any other point, sir?"

　　"Well, we may have to apply to you again if Mrs. Barclay shouldprove to be in serious trouble."

　　"In that case, of course, I'd come forward."

　　"But if not, there is no object in raking up this scandal againsta dead man, foully as he has acted. You have at least the satisfactionof knowing that for thirty years of his life his conscience bitterlyreproached him for his wicked deed. Ah, there goes Major Murphy on theother side of the street. Good-bye, Wood. I want to learn ifanything has happened since yesterday."

　　We were in time to overtake the major before he reached the corner."Ah, Holmes," he said, "I suppose you have heard that all thisfuss has come to nothing?"

　　"What then?"

　　"The inquest is just over. The medical evidence showed

　　conclusively that death was due to apoplexy. You see it was quite asimple case, after all."

　　"Oh, remarkably superficial," said Holmes, smiling. "Come, Watson, Idon't think we shall be wanted in Aldershot any more."

　　"There's one thing," said I as we walked down to the station. "Ifthe husband's name was James, and the other was Henry, what was thistalk about David?"

　　"That one word, my dear Watson, should have told me the wholestory had I been the ideal reasoner which you are so fond ofdepicting. It was evidently a term of reproach."

　　"Of reproach?"

　　"Yes; David strayed a little occasionally, you know, and on oneoccasion in the same direction as Sergeant James Barclay. You rememberthe small affair of Uriah and Bathsheba? My Biblical knowledge is atrifle rusty, I fear, but you will find the story in the first orsecond of Samuel."

　　THE END

　　.

　　1911

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE DISAPPEARANCE OF LADY FRANCES CARFAX

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　"But why Turkish?" asked Mr. Sherlock Holmes, gazing fixedly at myboots. I was reclining in a cane-backed chair at the moment, and myprotruded feet had attracted his ever-active attention."English," I answered in some surprise. "I got them at Latimer's, inOxford Street."

　　Holmes smiled with an expression of weary patience.

　　"The bath!" he said; "the bath! Why the relaxing and expensiveTurkish rather than the invigorating home-made article?""Because for the last few days I have been feeling rheumatic andold. A Turkish bath is what we call an alterative in medicine- a freshstarting-point, a cleanser of the system.

　　"By the way, Holmes," I added, "I have no doubt the connectionbetween my boots and a Turkish bath is a perfectly self-evident one toa logical mind, and yet I should be obliged to you if you wouldindicate it."

　　"The train of reasoning is not very obscure, Watson," said Holmeswith a mischievous twinkle. "It belongs to the same elementary classof deduction which I should illustrate if I were to ask you who sharedyour cab in your drive this morning."

　　"I don't admit that a fresh illustration is an explanation," saidI with some asperity.

　　"Bravo, Watson! A very dignified and logical remonstrance. Let mesee, what were the points? Take the last one first- the cab. Youobserve that you have some splashes on the left sleeve and shoulder ofyour coat. Had you sat in the centre of a hansom you would probablyhave had no splashes, and if you had they would certainly have beensymmetrical. Therefore it is clear that you sat at the side. Thereforeit is equally clear that you had a companion."

　　"That is very evident."

　　"Absurdly commonplace, is it not?"

　　"But the boots and the bath?"

　　"Equally childish. You are in the habit of doing up your boots ina certain way. I see them on this occasion fastened with anelaborate double bow, which is not your usual method of tying them.You have, therefore, had them off. Who has tied them? A bootmaker-or the boy at the bath. It is unlikely that it is the bootmaker, sinceyour boots are nearly new. Well, what remains? The bath. Absurd, is itnot? But, for all that, the Turkish bath has served a purpose.""What is that?"

　　"You say that you have had it because you need a change. Let mesuggest that you take one. How would Lausanne do, my dear Watson-first-class tickets and all expenses paid on a princely scale?""Splendid! But why?"

　　Holmes leaned back in his armchair and took his notebook from hispocket.

　　"One of the most dangerous classes in the world," said he, "is thedrifting and friendless woman. She is the most harmless and oftenthe most useful of mortals, but she is the inevitable inciter of crimein others. She is helpless. She is migratory. She has sufficient meansto take her from country to country and from hotel to hotel. She islost, as often as not, in a maze of obscure pensions andboarding-houses. She is a stray chicken in a world of foxes. Whenshe is gobbled up she is hardly missed. I much fear that some evil hascome to the Lady Frances Carfax."

　　I was relieved at this sudden descent from the general to theparticular. Holmes consulted his notes.

　　"Lady Frances," he continued, "is the sole survivor of the directfamily of the late Earl of Rufton. The estates went, as you mayremember, in the male line. She was left with limited means, butwith some very remarkable old Spanish jewellery of silver andcuriously cut diamonds to which she was fondly attached- too attached,for she refused to leave them with her banker and always carriedthem about with her. A rather pathetic figure, the Lady Frances, abeautiful woman, still in fresh middle age, and yet, by a strangechance, the last derelict of what only twenty years ago was a goodlyfleet."

　　"What has happened to her, then?"

　　"Ah, what has happened to the Lady Frances? Is she alive or dead?There is our problem. She is a lady of precise habits, and for fouryears it has been her invariable custom to write every second weekto Miss Dobney, her old governess, who has long retired and lives inCamberwell. It is this Miss Dobney who has consulted me. Nearly fiveweeks have passed without a word. The last letter was from the HotelNational at Lausanne. Lady Frances seems to have left there andgiven no address. The family are anxious, and as they areexceedingly wealthy no sum will be spared if we can clear the matterup."

　　"Is Miss Dobney the only source of information? Surely she had othercorrespondents?"

　　"There is one correspondent who is a sure draw, Watson. That isthe bank. Single ladies must live, and their passbooks arecompressed diaries. She banks at Silvester's. I have glanced overher account. The last check but one paid her bill at Lausanne, butit was a large one and probably left her with cash in hand. Only onecheck has been drawn since."

　　"To whom, and where?"

　　"To Miss Marie Devine. There is nothing to show where the checkwas drawn. It was cashed at the Credit Lyonnais at Montpellier lessthan three weeks ago. The sum was fifty Pounds."

　　"And who is Miss Marie Devine?"

　　"That also I have been able to discover. Miss Marie Devine was themaid of Lady Frances Carfax. Why she should have paid her this checkwe have not yet determined. I have no doubt, however, that yourresearches will soon clear the matter up."

　　"My researches!"

　　"Hence the health-giving expedition to Lausanne. You know that Icannot possibly leave London while old Abrahams is in such mortalterror of his life. Besides, on general principles it is best that Ishould not leave the country. Scotland Yard feels lonely without me,and it causes an unhealthy excitement among the criminal classes.Go, then, my dear Watson, and if my humble counsel can ever bevalued at so extravagant a rate as two pence a word, it waits yourdisposal night and day at the end of the Continental wire."Two days later found me at the Hotel National at Lausanne, where Ireceived every courtesy at the hands of M. Moser, the well-knownmanager. Lady Frances, as he informed me, had stayed there for severalweeks. She had been much liked by all who met her. Her age was notmore than forty. She was still handsome and bore every sign ofhaving in her youth been a very lovely woman. M. Moser knew nothing ofany valuable jewellery, but it had been remarked by the servantsthat the heavy trunk in the lady's bedroom was always scrupulouslylocked. Marie Devine, the maid, was as popular as her mistress. Shewas actually engaged to one of the head waiters in the hotel, andthere was no difficulty in getting her address. It was 11 Rue deTrajan, Montpellier. All this I jotted down and felt that Holmeshimself could not have been more adroit in collecting his facts.Only one corner still remained in the shadow. No light which Ipossessed could clear up the cause for the lady's sudden departure.She was very happy at Lausanne. There was every reason to believe thatshe intended to remain for the season in her luxurious roomsoverlooking the lake. And yet she had left at a single day's notice,which involved her in the useless payment of a week's rent. Only JulesVibart, the lover of the maid, had any suggestion to offer. Heconnected the sudden departure with the visit to the hotel a day ortwo before of a tall, dark, bearded man. 'Un savage- un veritablesavage!' cried Jules Vibart. The man had rooms somewhere in thetown. He had been seen talking earnestly to Madame on the promenade bythe lake. Then he had called. She had refused to see him. He wasEnglish, but of his name there was no record. Madame had left theplace immediately afterwards. Jules Vibart, and, what was of moreimportance, Jules Vibart's sweetheart, thought that this call and thisdeparture were cause and effect. Only one thing Jules would notdiscuss. That was the reason why Marie had left her mistress. Ofthat he could or would say nothing. If I wished to know, I must goto Montpellier and ask her.

　　So ended the first chapter of my inquiry. The second was devotedto the place which Lady Frances Carfax had sought when she leftLausanne. Concerning this there had been some secrecy, which confirmedthe idea that she had gone with the intention of throwing someoneoff her track. Otherwise why should not her luggage have been openlylabelled for Baden? Both she and it reached the Rhenish spa by somecircuitous route. This much I gathered from the manager of Cook'slocal office. So to Baden I went, after dispatching to Holmes anaccount of all my proceedings and receiving in reply a telegram ofhalf-humorous commendation.

　　At Baden the track was not difficult to follow. Lady Frances hadstayed at the Englischer Hof for a fortnight. While there she had madethe acquaintance of a Dr. Shlessinger and his wife, a missionaryfrom South America. Like most lonely ladies, Lady Frances found hercomfort and occupation in religion. Dr. Shlessinger's remarkablepersonality, his whole-hearted devotion, and the fact that he wasrecovering from a disease contracted in the exercise of hisapostolic duties affected her deeply. She had helped Mrs.Shlessinger in the nursing of the convalescent saint. He spent hisday, as the manager described it to me, upon a lounge-chair on theveranda, with an attendant lady upon either side of him. He waspreparing a map of the Holy Land, with special reference to thekingdom of the Midianites, upon which he was writing a monograph.Finally, having improved much in health, he and his wife hadreturned to London, and Lady Frances had started thither in theircompany. This was just three weeks before, and the manager had heardnothing since. As to the maid, Marie, she had gone off some daysbeforehand in floods of tears, after informing the other maids thatshe was leaving service forever. Dr. Shlessinger had paid the billof the whole party before his departure.

　　"By the way," said the landlord in conclusion, "you are not the onlyfriend of Lady Frances Carfax who is inquiring after her just now.Only a week or so ago we had a man where upon the same errand.""Did he give a name?" I asked.

　　"None; but he was an Englishman, though of an unusual type.""A savage?" said I, linking my facts after the fashion of myillustrious friend.

　　"Exactly. That describes him very well. He is a bulky, bearded,sunburned fellow, who looks as if he would be more at home in afarmers inn than in a fashionable hotel. A hard, fierce man, Ishould think, and one whom I should be sorry to offend."Already the mystery began to define itself, as figures growclearer with the lifting of a fog. Here was this good and pious ladypursued from place to place by a sinister and unrelenting figure.She feared him, or she would not have fled from Lausanne. He had stillfollowed. Sooner or later he would overtake her. Had he alreadyovertaken her? Was that the secret of her continued silence? Could thegood people who were her companions not screen her from his violenceor his blackmail? What horrible purpose, what deep design, laybehind this long pursuit? There was the problem which I had to solve.To Holmes I wrote showing how rapidly and surely I had got down tothe roots of the matter. In reply I had a telegram asking for adescription of Dr. Shlessinger's left ear. Holmes's ideas of humourare strange and occasionally, offensive, so I took no notice of hisill-timed jest- indeed, I had already reached Montpellier in mypursuit of the maid, Marie, before his message came.

　　I had no difficulty in finding the ex-servant and in learning allthat she could tell me. She was a devoted creature, who had onlyleft her mistress because she was sure that she was in good hands, andbecause her own approaching marriage made a separation inevitable inany case. Her mistress had, as she confessed with distress, shown someirritability of temper towards her during their stay in Baden, and hadeven questioned her once as if she had suspicions of her honesty,and this had made the parting easier than it would otherwise havebeen. Lady Frances had given her fifty pounds as a wedding-present.Like me, Marie viewed with deep distrust the stranger who had drivenher mistress from Lausanne. With her own eyes she had seen him seizethe lady's wrist with great violence on the public promenade by thelake, He was a fierce and terrible man. She believed that it was outof dread of him that Lady Frances had accepted the escort of theShlessingers to London. She had never spoken to Marie about it, butmany little signs had convinced the maid that her mistress lived ina state of continual nervous apprehension. So far she had got in hernarrative, when suddenly she sprang from her chair and her face wasconvulsed with surprise and fear. "See!" she cried. "The miscreantfollows still! There is the very man of whom I speak."

　　Through the open sitting-room window I saw a huge, swarthy manwith a bristling black beard walking slowly down the centre of thestreet and staring eagerly at the numbers of the houses. It wasclear that, like myself, he was on the track of the maid. Actingupon the impulse of the moment, I rushed out and accosted him."You are an Englishman," I said.

　　"What if I am?" he asked with a most villainous scowl.

　　"May I ask what your name is?"

　　"No, you may not," said he with decision.

　　The situation was awkward, but the most direct way is often thebest.

　　"Where is the Lady Frances Carfax?" I asked.

　　He stared at me in amazement.

　　"What have you done with her? Why have you pursued her? I insistupon an answer!" said I.

　　The fellow gave a bellow of anger and sprang upon me like a tiger. Ihave held my own in many a struggle, but the man had a grip of ironand the fury of a fiend. His hand was on my throat and my senseswere nearly gone before an unshaven French ouvrier in a blue blousedarted out from a cabaret opposite, with a cudgel in his hand, andstruck my assailant a sharp crack over the forearm, which made himleave go his hold. He stood for an instant fuming with rage anduncertain whether he should not renew his attack. Then, with a snarlof anger, he left me and entered the cottage from which I had justcome. I turned to thank my preserver, who stood beside me in theroadway.

　　"Well, Watson," said he, "a very pretty hash you have made of it!I rather think you had better come back with me to London by the nightexpress."

　　An hour afterwards, Sherlock Holmes, in his usual garb and style,was seated in my private room at the hotel. His explanation of hissudden and opportune appearance was simplicity itself, for, findingthat he could get away from London, he determined to head me off atthe next obvious point of my travels. In the disguise of aworkingman he had sat in the cabaret waiting for my appearance."And a singularly consistent investigation you have made, my dearWatson," said he. "I cannot at the moment recall any possibleblunder which you have omitted. The total effect of your proceedinghas been to give the alarm everywhere and yet to discover nothing.""Perhaps you would have done no better," I answered bitterly."There is no 'perhaps' about it. I have done better. Here is theHon. Philip Green, who is a fellow-lodger with you in this hotel,and we may find him the starting-point for a more successfulinvestigation."

　　A card had come up on a salver, and it was followed by the samebearded ruffian who had attacked me in the street. He started whenhe saw me.

　　"What is this, Mr. Holmes?" he asked. "I had your note and I havecome. But what has this man to do with the matter?"

　　This is my old friend and associate, Dr. Watson, who is helping usin this affair."

　　The stranger held out a huge, sunburned hand, with a few words ofapology.

　　"I hope I didn't harm you. When you accused me of hurting her I lostmy grip of myself. Indeed, I'm not responsible in these days. Mynerves are like live wires. But this situation is beyond me. What Iwant to know, in the first place, Mr. Holmes, is, how in the world youcame to hear of my existence at all."

　　"I am in touch with Miss Dobney, Lady Frances's governess.""Old Susan Dobney with the mob cap! I remember her well.""And she remembers you. It was in the days before- before youfound it better to go to South Africa."

　　"Ah, I see you know my whole story. I need hide nothing from you.I swear to you, Mr. Holmes, that there never was in this world a manwho loved a woman with a more wholehearted love than I had forFrances. I was a wild youngster, I know- not worse than others of myclass. But her mind was pure as snow. She could not bear a shadow ofcoarseness. So, when she came to hear of things that I had done, shewould have no more to say to me. And yet she loved me- that is thewonder of it!- loved me well enough to remain single all her sainteddays just for my sake alone. When the years had passed and I hadmade my money at Barberton I thought perhaps I could seek her outand soften her. I had heard that she was still unmarried. I foundher at Lausanne and tried all I knew. She weakened, I think, but herwill was strong, and when next I called she had left the town. Itraced her to Baden, and then after a time heard that her maid washere. I'm a rough fellow, fresh from a rough life, and when Dr. Watsonspoke to me as he did I lost hold of myself for a moment. But forGod's sake tell me what has become of the Lady Frances.""That is for us to find out," said Sherlock Holmes with peculiargravity. "What is your London address, Mr. Green?"

　　"The Langham Hotel will find me."

　　"Then may I recommend that you return there and be on hand in case Ishould want you? I have no desire to encourage false hopes, but youmay rest assured that all that can be done will be done for the safetyof Lady Frances. I can say no more for the instant. I will leave youthis card so that you may be able to keep in touch with us. Now,Watson, if you will pack your bag I will cable to Mrs. Hudson tomake one of her best efforts for two hungry travellers at 7:30to-morrow."

　　A telegram was awaiting us when we reached our Baker Street rooms,which Holmes read with an exclamation of interest and threw acrossto me. "Jagged or torn," was the message, and the place of origin,Baden.

　　"What is this?" I asked.

　　"It is everything," Holmes answered. "You may remember myseemingly irrelevant question as to this clerical gentleman's leftear. You did not answer it."

　　"I had left Baden and could not inquire."

　　"Exactly. For this reason I sent a duplicate to the manager of theEnglischer Hof, whose answer lies here."

　　"What does it show?"

　　"It shows, my dear Watson, that we are dealing with an exceptionallyastute and dangerous man. The Rev. Dr. Shlessinger, missionary fromSouth America, is none other than Holy Peters, one of the mostunscrupulous rascals that Australia has ever evolved- and for ayoung country it has turned out some very finished types. Hisparticular specialty is the beguiling of lonely ladies by playing upontheir religious feelings, and his so-called wife, an Englishwomannamed Fraser, is a worthy helpmate. The nature of his tacticssuggested his identity to me, and this physical peculiarity- he wasbadly bitten in a saloon-fight at Adelaide in '89- confirmed mysuspicion. This poor lady is in the hands of a most infernal couple,who will stick at nothing, Watson. That she is already dead is avery likely supposition. If not, she is undoubtedly in some sort ofconfinement and unable to write to Miss Dobney or her other friends.It is always possible that she never reached London, or that she haspassed through it, but the former is improbable, as, with their systemof registration, it is not easy for foreigners to play tricks with theContinental police; and the latter is also unlikely, as these roguescould not hope to find any other place where it would be as easy tokeep a person under restraint. All my instincts tell me that she is inLondon, but as we have at present no possible means of tellingwhere, we can only take the obvious steps, eat our dinner, and possessour souls in patience. Later in the evening I will stroll down andhave a word with friend Lestrade at Scotland Yard."

　　But neither the official police nor Holmes's own small but veryefficient organization sufficed to clear away the mystery. Amid thecrowded millions of London the three persons we sought were ascompletely obliterated as if they had never lived. Advertisements weretried, and failed. Clues were followed, and led to nothing. Everycriminal resort which Shlessinger might frequent was drawn in vain.His old associates were watched, but they kept clear of him. Andthen suddenly, after a week of helplessness suspense there came aflash of light. A silver-and-brilliant pendant of old Spanish designhad been pawned at Bovington's, in Westminster Road. The pawner wasa large, clean-shaven man of clerical appearance. His name and addresswere demonstrably false. The ear had escaped notice, but thedescription was surely that of Shlessinger.

　　Three times had our bearded friend from the Langham called for news-the third time within an hour of this fresh development. His clotheswere getting looser on his great body. He seemed to be wilting away inhis anxiety. "If you will only give me something to do!" was hisconstant wail. At last Holmes could oblige him.

　　"He has begun, to pawn the jewels. We should get him now.""But does this mean that any harm has befallen the Lady Frances?"Holmes shook his head very gravely.

　　"Supposing that they have held her prisoner up to now, it is clearthat they cannot let her loose without their own destruction. Wemust prepare for the worst."

　　"What can I do?"

　　"These people do not know you by sight?"

　　"No."

　　"It is possible that he will go to some other pawnbroker in thefuture. In that case, we must begin again. On the other hand, he hashad a fair price and no questions asked, so if he is in need ofready-money he will probably come back to Bovington's. I will give youa note to them, and they will let you wait in the shop. If thefellow comes you will follow him home. But no indiscretion, and, aboveall, no violence. I put you on your honour that you will take nostep without my knowledge and consent."

　　For two days the Hon. Philip Green (he was, I may mention, the sonof the famous admiral of that name who commanded the Sea of Azof fleetin the Crimean War) brought us no news. On the evening of the third herushed into our sitting-room, pale, trembling, with every muscle ofhis powerful frame quivering with excitement.

　　"We have him! We have him!" he cried.

　　He was incoherent in his agitation. Holmes soothed him with a fewwords and thrust him into an armchair.

　　"Come, now, give us the order of events," said he.

　　"She came only an hour ago. It was the wife, this time, but thependant she brought was the fellow of the other, She is a tall, palewoman, with ferret eyes."

　　"That is the lady," said Holmes.

　　"She left the office and I followed her. She walked up theKennington Road, and I kept behind her. Presently she went into ashop. Mr. Holmes, it was an undertaker's."

　　My companion started. "Well?" he asked in that vibrant voice whichtold of the fiery soul behind the cold gray face.

　　"She was talking to the woman behind the counter. I entered as well.'It is late,' I heard her say, or words to that effect. The womanwas excusing herself. 'It should be there before now,' she answered.'It took longer, being out of the ordinary.' They both stopped andlooked at me, so I asked some question and then left the shop.""You did excellently well. What happened next?"

　　"The woman came out, but I had hid myself in a doorway. Hersuspicions had been aroused, I think, for she looked round her. Thenshe called a cab and got in. I was lucky enough to get another andso to follow her. She got down at last at No. 36, Poultney Square,Brixton. I drove past, left my cab at the corner of the square, andwatched the house."

　　"Did you see anyone?"

　　"The windows were all in darkness save one on the lower floor. Theblind was down, and I could not see in. I was standing there,wondering what I should do next, when a covered van drove up withtwo men in it. They descended, took something out of the van, andcarried it up the steps to the hall door. Mr. Holmes, it was acoffin."

　　"Ah!"

　　"For an instant I was on the point of rushing in. The door hadbeen opened to admit the men and their burden. It was the woman whohad opened it. But as I stood there she caught a glimpse of me, andI think that she recognized me. I saw her start, and she hastilyclosed the door. I remembered my promise to you, and here I am.""You have done excellent work," said Holmes scribbling a few wordsupon a half-sheet of paper. "We can do nothing legal without awarrant, and you can serve the cause best by taking this note downto the authorities and getting one. There may be some difficulty,but I should think that the sale of the jewellery should besufficient. Lestrade will see to all details."

　　"But they may murder her in the meanwhile. What could the coffinmean, and for whom could it be but for her?"

　　"We will do all that can be done, Mr. Green. Not a moment will belost. Leave it in our hands. Now, Watson," he added as our clienthurried away, "he will set the regular forces on the move. We are,as usual, the irregulars, and we must take our own line of action. Thesituation strikes me as so desperate that the most extreme measuresare justified. Not a moment is to be lost in getting to PoultneySquare.

　　"Let us try to reconstruct the situation," said he as we droveswiftly past the Houses of Parliament and over Westminster Bridge."These villains have coaxed this unhappy lady to London, after firstalienating her from her faithful maid. If she has written anyletters they have been intercepted. Through some confederate they haveengaged a furnished house. Once inside it, they have made her aprisoner, and they have become possessed of the valuable jewellerywhich has been their object from the first. Already they have begun tosell part of it, which seems safe enough to them, since they have noreason to think that anyone is interested in the lady's fate. When sheis released she will, of course, denounce them. Therefore, she mustnot be released. But they cannot keep her under lock and keyforever. So murder is their only solution."

　　"That seems very clear."

　　"Now we will take another line of reasoning. When you follow twoseparate chains of thought, Watson, you will find some point ofintersection which should approximate to the truth. We will start now,not from the lady but from the coffin and argue backward. Thatincident proves, I fear, beyond all doubt that the lady is dead. Itpoints also to an orthodox burial with proper accompaniment of medicalcertificate and official sanction. Had the lady been obviouslymurdered, they would have buried her in a hole in the back garden. Buthere all is open and regular. What does that mean? Surely that theyhave done her to death in some way which has deceived the doctor andsimulated a natural end- poisoning, perhaps. And yet how strangethat they should ever let a doctor approach her unless he were aconfederate, which is hardly a credible proposition."

　　"Could they have forged a medical certificate?"

　　"Dangerous, Watson, very dangerous. No, I hardly see them doingthat. Pull up, cabby! This is evidently the undertaker's, for wehave just passed the pawnbroker's. Would you go in, Watson? Yourappearance inspires confidence. Ask what hour the Poultney Squarefuneral takes place to-morrow."

　　The woman in the shop answered me without hesitation that it wasto be at eight o'clock in the morning. "You see, Watson, no mystery;everything aboveboard! In some way the legal forms have undoubtedlybeen complied with, and they think that they have little to fear.Well, there's nothing for it now but a direct frontal attack. Areyou armed?"

　　"My stick!"

　　"Well, well, we shall be strong enough. 'Thrice is he armed who hathhis quarrel just.' We simply can't afford to wait for the police or tokeep within the four corners of the law. You can drive off, cabby.Now, Watson, we'll just take our luck together, as we haveoccasionally done in the past."

　　He had rung loudly at the door of a great dark house in the centreof Poultney Square. It was opened immediately, and the figure of atall woman was outlined against the dim-lit hall.

　　"Well, what do you want?" she asked sharply, peering at us throughthe darkness.

　　"I want to speak to Dr. Shlessinger," said Holmes.

　　"There is no such person here," she answered, and tried to close thedoor, but Holmes had jammed it with his foot.

　　"Well, I want to see the man who lives here, whatever he may callhimself," said Holmes firmly.

　　She hesitated. Then she threw open the door. "Well, come in!" saidshe. "My husband is not afraid to face any man in the world." Sheclosed the door behind us and showed us into a sitting-room on theright side of the hall, turning up the gas as she left us. "Mr. Peterswill be with you in an instant," she said.

　　Her words were literally true, for we had hardly time to look aroundthe dusty and moth-eaten apartment in which we found ourselvesbefore the door opened and a big, clean-shaven bald-headed man steppedlightly into the room. He had a large red face, with pendulous cheeks,and a general air of superficial benevolence which was marred by acruel, vicious mouth.

　　"There is surely some mistake here, gentlemen," he said in anunctuous, make-everything-easy voice. "I fancy that you have beenmisdirected. Possibly if you tried farther down the street-""That will do; we have no time to waste," said my companionfirmly. "You are Henry Peters, of Adelaide, late the Rev. Dr.Shlessinger, of Baden and South America. I am as sure of that asthat my own name is Sherlock Holmes."

　　Peters, as I will now call him, started and stared hard at hisformidable pursuer. "I guess your name does not frighten me, Mr.Holmes," said he coolly. "When a man's conscience is easy you can'trattle him. What is your business in my house?"

　　"I want to know what you have done with the Lady Frances Carfax,whom you brought away with you from Baden."

　　"I'd be very glad if you could tell me where that lady may be,"Peters answered coolly. "I've a bill against her for nearly ahundred pounds, and nothing to show for it but a couple of trumperypendants that the dealer would hardly look at. She attached herself toMrs. Peters and me at Baden- it is a fact that I was using anothername at the time- and she stuck on to us until we came to London. Ipaid her bill and her ticket. Once in London, she gave us the slip,and, as I say, left these out-of-date jewels to pay her bills. Youfind her, Mr. Holmes, and I'm your debtor."

　　"I mean to find her," said Sherlock Holmes. "I'm going throughthis house till I do find her."

　　"Where is your warrant?"

　　Holmes half drew a revolver from his pocket. "This will have toserve till a better one comes."

　　"Why, you are a common burglar."

　　"So you might describe me," said Holmes cheerfully. "My companion isalso a dangerous ruffian. And together we are going through yourhouse."

　　Our opponent opened the door.

　　"Fetch a policeman, Annie!" said he. There was a whisk of feminineskirts down the passage, and the hall door was opened and shut."Our time is limited, Watson," said Holmes. "If you try to stopus, Peters, you will most certainly get hurt. Where is that coffinwhich was brought into your house?"

　　"What do you want with the coffin? It is in use. There is a bodyin it."

　　"I must see that body."

　　"Never with my consent."

　　"Then without it." With a quick movement Holmes pushed the fellow toone side and passed into the hall. A door half opened stoodimmediately before us. We entered. It was the dining-room. On thetable, under a half-lit chandelier, the coffin was lying. Holmesturned up the gas and raised the lid. Deep down in the recesses of thecoffin lay an emaciated figure. The glare from the lights above beatdown upon an aged and withered face. By no possible process ofcruelty, starvation, or disease could this wornout wreck be thestill beautiful Lady Frances. Holmes's face showed his amazement andalso his relief.

　　"Thank God!" he muttered. "It's someone else."

　　"Ah, you've blundered badly for once, Mr. Sherlock Holmes," saidPeters, who had followed us into the room.

　　"Who is this dead woman?"

　　"Well, if you really must know, she is an old nurse of my wife's,Rose Spender by name, whom we found in the Brixton WorkhouseInfirmary. We brought her round here, called in Dr. Horsom, of 13Firbank Villas- mind you take the address, Mr. Holmes- and had hercarefully tended, as Christian folk should. On the third day she died-certificate says senile decay- but that's only the doctor's opinion,and of course you know better. We ordered her funeral to be carriedout by Stimson and Co., of the Kennington Road, who will bury her ateight o'clock to-morrow morning. Can you pick any hole in that, Mr.Holmes? You've made a silly blunder, and you may as well own up to it.I'd give something for a photograph of your gaping, staring facewhen you pulled aside that lid expecting to see the Lady FrancesCarfax and only found a poor old woman of ninety."

　　Holmes's expression was as impassive as ever under the jeers ofhis antagonist, but his clenched hands betrayed his acute annoyance."I am going through your house," said he.

　　"Are you, though!" cried Peters as a woman's voice and heavy stepssounded in the passage. "We'll soon see about that. This way,officers, if you please. These men have forced their way into myhouse, and I cannot get rid of them. Help me to put them out."A sergeant and a constable stood in the doorway. Holmes drew hiscard from his case.

　　"This is my name and address. This is my friend, Dr. Watson.""Bless you, sir, we know you very well," said the sergeant, "but youcan't stay here without a warrant."

　　"Of course not. I quite understand that."

　　"Arrest him!" cried Peters.

　　"We know where to lay our hands on this gentleman if he iswanted," said the sergeant majestically, "but you'll have to go, Mr.Holmes."

　　"Yes, Watson, we shall have to go."

　　A minute later we were in the street once more. Holmes as cool asever, but I was hot with anger and humiliation. The sergeant hadfollowed us.

　　"Sorry, Mr. Holmes, but that's the law."

　　"Exactly, Sergeant, you could not do otherwise."

　　"I expect there was good reason for your presence there. If there isanything I can do-"

　　"It's a missing lady, Sergeant, and I think she is in that house.I expect a warrant presently."

　　"Then I'll keep my eye on the parties, Mr. Holmes. If anything comesalong, I will surely let you know."

　　It was only nine o'clock, and we were off full cry upon the trail atonce. First we drove to Brixton Workhouse Infirmary, where we foundthat it was indeed the truth that a charitable couple had calledsome days before, that they had claimed an imbecile old woman as aformer servant, and that they had obtained permission to take her awaywith them. No surprise was expressed at the news that she had sincedied.

　　The doctor was our next goal. He had been called in, had found thewoman dying of pure senility, had actually seen her pass away, and hadsigned the certificate in due form. "I assure you that everythingwas perfectly normal and there was no room for foul play in thematter," said he. Nothing in the house had struck him as suspicioussave that for people of their class it was remarkable that they shouldhave no servant. So far and no farther went the doctor.Finally we found our way to Scotland Yard. There had beendifficulties of procedure in regard to the warrant. Some delay wasinevitable. The magistrate's signature might not be obtained untilnext morning. If Holmes would call about nine he could go down withLestrade and see it acted upon. So ended the day, save that nearmidnight our friend, the sergeant, called to say that he had seenflickering lights here and there in the windows of the great darkhouse, but that no one had left it and none had entered. We couldbut pray for patience and wait for the morrow.

　　Sherlock Holmes was too irritable for conversation and toorestless for sleep. I left him smoking hard, with his heavy, darkbrows knotted together, and his long, nervous fingers tapping upon thearms of his chair, as he turned over in his mind every possiblesolution of the mystery. Several times in the course of the night Iheard him prowling about the house. Finally, just after I had beencalled in the morning, he rushed into my room. He was in hisdressing-gown, but his pale, hollow-eyed face told me that his nighthad been a sleepless one.

　　"What time was the funeral? Eight, was it not?" he asked eagerly."Well, it is 7:30 now. Good heavens, Watson, what has become of anybrains that God has given me? Quick, man, quick! It's life or death- ahundred chances on death to one on life. I'll never forgive myself,never, if we are too late!"

　　Five minutes had not passed before we were flying in a hansom downBaker Street. But even so it was twenty-five to eight as we passed BigBen, and eight struck as we tore down the Brixton Road. But otherswere late as well as we. Ten minutes after the hour the hearse wasstill standing at the door of the house, and even as our foaming horsecame to a halt the coffin, supported by three men, appeared on thethreshold. Holmes darted forward and barred their way.

　　"Take it back!" he cried, laying his hand on the breast of theforemost. "Take it back this instant!"

　　"What the devil do you mean? Once again I ask you, where is yourwarrant?" shouted the furious Peters, his big red face glaring overthe farther end of the coffin.

　　"The warrant is on its way. This coffin shall remain in the houseuntil it comes."

　　The authority in Holmes's voice had its effect upon the bearers.Peters had suddenly vanished into the house, and they obeyed these neworders. "Quick, Watson, quick! Here is a screw-driver!" he shoutedas the coffin was replaced upon the table. "Here's one for you, myman! A sovereign if the lid comes off in a minute! Ask no questions-work away! That's good! Another! And another! Now pull all together!It's giving! It's giving! Ah, that does it at last."

　　With a united effort we tore off the coffin-lid. As we did sothere came from the inside a stupefying and overpowering smell ofchloroform. A body lay within, its head ill wreathed in cotton-wool,which had been soaked in the narcotic. Holmes plucked it off anddisclosed the statuesque face of a handsome and spiritual woman ofmiddle age. In an instant he had passed his arm round the figure andraised her to a sitting position.

　　"Is she gone, Watson? Is there a spark left? Surely we are not toolate!"

　　For half an hour it seemed that we were. What with actualsuffocation, and what with the poisonous fumes of the chloroform,the Lady Frances seemed to have passed the last point of recall. Andthen, at last, with artificial respiration, with injected ether,with every device that science could suggest, some flutter of life,some quiver of the eyelids, some dimming of a mirror, spoke of theslowly returning life. A cab had driven up, and Holmes, parting theblind, looked out at it. "Here is Lestrade with his warrant," said he."He will find that his birds have flown. And here," he added as aheavy step hurried along the passage, "is someone who has a betterright to nurse this lady than we have. Good morning, Mr. Green; Ithink that the sooner we can move the Lady Frances the better.Meanwhile, the funeral may proceed, and the poor old woman who stilllies in that coffin may go to her last resting-place alone.""Should you care to add the case to your annals, my dear Watson,"said Holmes that evening, "it can only be as an example of thattemporary eclipse to which even the best-balanced mind may be exposed.Such slips are common to all mortals, and the greatest is he who canrecognize and repair them. To this modified credit I may, perhaps,make some claim. My night was haunted by the thought that somewherea clue, a strange sentence, a curious observation, had come under mynotice and had been too easily dismissed. Then, suddenly, in thegray of the morning, the words came back to me. It was the remark ofthe undertaker's wife, as reported by Philip Green. She had said,'It should be there before now. It took longer, being out of theordinary.' It was the coffin of which she spoke. It had been out ofthe ordinary. That could only mean that it had been made to somespecial measurement. But why? Why? Then in an instant I remembered thedeep sides, and the little wasted figure at the bottom. Why so large acoffin for so small a body? To leave room for another body. Both wouldbe buried under the one certificate. It had all been so clear, if onlymy own sight had not been dimmed. At eight the Lady Frances would beburied. Our one chance was to stop the coffin before it left thehouse.

　　"It was a desperate chance that we might find her alive, but itwas a chance, as the result showed. These people had never, to myknowledge, done a murder. They might shrink from actual violence atthe last. They could bury her with no sign of how she met her end, andeven if she were exhumed there was a chance for them. I hoped thatsuch considerations might prevail with them. You can reconstruct thescene well enough. You saw the horrible den upstairs, where the poorlady had been kept so long. They rushed in and overpowered her withtheir chloroform, carried her down, poured more into the coffin toinsure against her waking, and then screwed down the lid. A cleverdevice, Watson. It is new to me in the annals of crime. If ourex-missionary friends escape the clutches of Lestrade, I shallexpect to hear of some brilliant incidents in their future career."-THE END-

　　.

　　1893

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE FINAL PROBLEM

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　It is with a heavy heart that I take up my pen to write these thelast words in which I shall ever record the singular gifts by which myfriend Mr. Sherlock Holmes was distinguished. In an incoherent and, asI deeply feel, an entirely inadequate fashion, I have endeavoured togive some account of my strange experiences in his company from thechance which first brought us together at the period of the 'Studyin Scarlet,' up to the time of his interference in the matter of the'Naval Treaty'-an interference which had the unquestionable effectof preventing a serious international complication. It was myintention to have stopped there, and to have said nothing of thatevent which has created a void in my life which the lapse of two yearshas done little to fill. My hand has been forced, however, by therecent letters in which Colonel James Moriarty defends the memory ofhis brother, and I have no choice but to lay the facts before thepublic exactly as they occurred. I alone know the absolute truth ofthe matter, and I am satisfied that the time has come when no goodpurpose is to be served by its suppression. As far as I know, therehave been only three accounts in the public press: that in the Journalde Geneve on May 6th, 1891, the Reuter's dispatch in the Englishpapers on May 7th, and finally the recent letters to which I havealluded. Of these the first and second were extremely condensed, whilethe last is, as I shall now show, an absolute perversion of the facts.It lies with me to tell for the first time what really took placebetween Professor Moriarty and Mr. Sherlock Holmes.

　　It may be remembered that after my marriage, and my subsequent startin private practice, the very intimate relations which had existedbetween Holmes and myself became to some extent modified. He stillcame to me from time to time when he desired a companion in hisinvestigations, but these occasions grew more and more seldom, until Ifind that in the year 1890 there were only three cases of which Iretain any record. During the winter of that year and the early springof 1891, I saw in the papers that he had been engaged by the Frenchgovernment upon a matter of supreme importance, and I received twonotes from Holmes, dated from Narbonne and from Nimes, from which Igathered that his stay in France was likely to be a long one. It waswith some surprise, therefore, that I saw him walk into myconsulting-room upon the evening of April 24th. It struck me that hewas looking even paler and thinner than usual.

　　"Yes, I have been using myself up rather too freely," he remarked,in answer to my look rather than to my words; "I have been a littlepressed of late. Have you any objection to my closing your shutters?"The only light in the room came from the lamp upon the table atwhich I had been reading. Holmes edged his way round the wall, and,flinging the shutters together, he bolted them securely."You are afraid of something?" I asked.

　　"Well, I am."

　　"Of what?"

　　"Of air-guns."

　　"My dear Holmes, what do you mean?"

　　"I think that you know me well enough, Watson, to understand thatI am by no means a nervous man. At the same time, it is stupidityrather than courage to refuse to recognize danger when it is closeupon you. Might I trouble you for a match?" He drew in the smoke ofhis cigarette as if the soothing influence was grateful to him."I must apologize for calling so late," said he, "and I must furtherbeg you to be so unconventional as to allow me to leave your housepresently by scrambling over your back garden wall."

　　"But what does it all mean?" I asked.

　　He held out his hand, and I saw in the light of the lamp that two ofhis knuckles were burst and bleeding.

　　"It's not an airy nothing, you see," said he, smiling. "On thecontrary, it is solid enough for a man to break his hand over. Is Mrs.Watson in?"

　　"She is away upon a visit."

　　"Indeed You are alone?"

　　"Quite."

　　"Then it makes it the easier for me to propose that you shouldcome away with me for a week to the Continent."

　　"Where?"

　　"Oh, anywhere. It's all the same to me."

　　There was something very strange in all this. It was not Holmes'snature to take an aimless holiday, and something about his pale,worn face told me that his nerves were at their highest tension. Hesaw the question in my eyes, and, putting his finger-tips together andhis elbows upon his knees, he explained the situation.

　　"You have probably never heard of Professor Moriarty?" said he."Never."

　　"Ay, there's the genius and the wonder of the thing" he cried."The man pervades London, and no one has heard of him. That's whatputs him on a pinnacle in the records of crime. I tell you Watson,in all seriousness, that if I could beat that man, if I could freesociety of him, I should feel that my own career had reached itssummit, and I should be prepared to turn to some more placid line inlife. Between ourselves, the recent cases in which I have been ofassistance to the royal family of Scandinavia, and to the Frenchrepublic, have left me in such a position that I could continue tolive in the quiet fashion which is most congenial to me, and toconcentrate my attention upon my chemical researches. But I couldnot rest, Watson, I could not sit quiet in my chair, if I thought thatsuch a man as Professor Moriarty were walking the streets of Londonunchallenged."

　　"What has he done, then?"

　　"His career has been an extraordinary one. He is a man of good birthand excellent education, endowed by nature with a phenomenalmathematical faculty. At the age of twenty-one he wrote a treatiseupon the binomial theorem, which has had a European vogue. On thestrength of it he won the mathematical chair at one of our smalleruniversities, and had, to all appearances, a most brilliant careerbefore him. But the man had hereditary tendencies of the mostdiabolical kind. A criminal strain ran in his blood, which, instead ofbeing modified, was increased and rendered infinitely more dangerousby his extraordinary mental powers. Dark rumours gathered round him inthe university town, and eventually he was compelled to resign hischair and to come down to London, where he set up as an army coach. Somuch is known to the world, but what I am telling you now is what Ihave myself discovered.

　　"As you are aware, Watson, there is no one who knows the highercriminal world of London so well as I do. For years past I havecontinually been conscious of some power behind the malefactor, somedeep organizing power which forever stands in the way of the law,and throws its shield over the wrong-doer. Again and again in cases ofthe most varying sorts-forgery cases, robberies, murders-I have feltthe presence of this force, and I have deduced its action in many ofthose undiscovered crimes in which I have not been personallyconsulted. For years I have endeavoured to break through the veilwhich shrouded it, and at last the time came when I seized my threadand followed it, until it led me, after a thousand cunning windings,to ex-Professor Moriarty, of mathematical celebrity.

　　"He is the Napoleon of crime, Watson. He is the organizer of halfthat is evil and of nearly all that is undetected in this greatcity. He is a genius, a philosopher, an abstract thinker. He has abrain of the first order. He sits motionless, like a spider in thecentre of its web, but that web has a thousand radiations, and heknows well every quiver of each of them. He does little himself Heonly plans. But his agents are numerous and splendidly organized. Isthere a crime to be done a paper to be abstracted, we will say, ahouse to be rifled, a man to be removed the word is passed to theprofessor, the matter is organized and carried out. The agent may becaught. In that case money is found for his bail or his defence. Butthe central power which uses the agent is never caught-never so muchas suspected. This was the organization which I deduced, Watson, andwhich I devoted my whole energy to exposing and breaking up."But the professor was fenced round with safeguards so cunninglydevised that, do what I would, it seemed impossible to get evidencewhich would convict in a court of law. You know my powers, my dearWatson, and yet at the end of three months I was forced to confessthat I had at last met an antagonist who was my intellectual equal. Myhorror at his crimes was lost in my admiration at his skill. But atlast he made a trip-only a little, little trip-but it was more than hecould afford, when I was so close upon him. I had my chance, and,starting from that point, I have woven my net round him until now itis all ready to close. In three days-that is to say, on Mondaynext-matters will be ripe, and the professor, with all the principalmembers of his gang, will be in the hands of the police. Then willcome the greatest criminal trial of the century, the clearing up ofover forty mysteries, and the rope for all of them; but if we moveat all prematurely, you understand, they may slip out of our handseven at the last moment.

　　"Now, if I could have done this without the knowledge of ProfessorMoriarty, all would have been well. But he was too wily for that. Hesaw every step which I took to draw my toils round him. Again andagain he strove to break away, but I as often headed him off. I tellyou, my friend, that if a detailed account of that silent contestcould be written, it would take its place as the most brilliant bit ofthrust-and-parry work in the history of detection. Never have Irisen to such a height, and never have I been so hard pressed by anopponent. He cut deep, and yet I just undercut him. This morning thelast steps were taken, and three days only were wanted to complete thebusiness. I was sitting in my room thinking the matter over when thedoor opened and Professor Moriarty stood before me.

　　"My nerves are fairly proof, Watson, but I must confess to a startwhen I saw the very man who had been so much in my thoughts standingthere on my threshold. His appearance was quite familiar to me. Heis extremely tall and thin, his forehead domes out in a white curve,and his two eyes are deeply sunken in his head. He is clean-shaven,pale, and ascetic-looking, retaining something of the professor in hisfeatures. His shoulders are rounded from much study, and his faceprotrudes forward and is forever slowly oscillating from side toside in a curiously reptilian fashion. He peered at me with greatcuriosity in his puckered eyes.

　　"'You have less frontal development than I should have expected,'said he at last. 'It is a dangerous habit to finger loaded firearms inthe pocket of one's dressing-gown.'

　　"The fact is that upon his entrance I had instantly recognized theextreme personal danger in which I lay. The only conceivable escapefor him lay in silencing my tongue. In an instant I had slipped therevolver from the drawer into my pocket and was covering him throughthe cloth. At his remark I drew the weapon out and laid it cocked uponthe table. He still smiled and blinked, but there was somethingabout his eyes which made me feel very glad that I had it there."'You evidently don't know me,' said he.

　　"'On the contrary,' I answered, 'I think it is fairly evident that Ido. Pray take a chair. I can spare you five minutes if you haveanything to say.'

　　"'All that I have to say has already crossed your mind,' said he."'Then possibly my answer has crossed yours,' I replied."'You stand fast?'

　　"'Absolutely.'

　　"He clapped his hand into his pocket, and I raised the pistol fromthe table. But he merely drew out a memorandum-book in which he hadscribbled some dates.

　　"'You crossed my path on the fourth of January,' said he. 'On thetwenty-third you incommoded me; by the middle of February I wasseriously inconvenienced by you; at the end of March I wasabsolutely hampered in my plans; and now, at the close of April, Ifind myself placed in such a position through your continualpersecution that I am in positive danger of losing my liberty. Thesituation is becoming an impossible one.'

　　"'Have you any suggestion to make?' I asked.

　　"'You must drop it, Mr. Holmes,' said he, swaying his face about.'You really must, you know.'

　　"'After Monday,' said I.

　　"'Tut, tut!' said he. 'I am quite sure that a man of yourintelligence will see that there can be but one outcome to thisaffair. It is necessary that you should withdraw. You have workedthings in such a fashion that we have only one resource left. It hasbeen an intellectual treat to me to see the way in which you havegrappled with this affair, and I say, unaffectedly, that it would be agrief to me to be forced to take any extreme measure. You smile,sir, but I assure you that it really would.'

　　"'Danger is part of my trade,' I remarked.

　　"This is not danger,' said he. 'It is inevitable destruction. Youstand in the way not merely of an individual but of a mightyorganization, the full extent of which you, with all yourcleverness, have been unable to realize. You must stand clear, Mr.Holmes, or be trodden under foot.'

　　"'I am afraid,' said I, rising, 'that in the pleasure of thisconversation I am neglecting business of importance which awaits meelsewhere.'

　　"He rose also and looked at me in silence, shaking his head sadly."'Well, well,' said he at last. 'It seems a pity, but I have donewhat I could. I know every move of your game. You can do nothingbefore Monday. It has been a duel between you and me, Mr. Holmes.You hope to place me in the dock. I tell you that I will never standin the dock. You hope to beat me. I tell you that you will neverbeat me. If you are clever enough to bring destruction upon me, restassured that I shall do as much to you.'

　　"'You have paid me several compliments, Mr. Moriarty,' said I.'Let me pay you one in return when I say that if I were assured of theformer eventuality I would, in the interests of the public, cheerfullyaccept the latter.'

　　"'I can promise you the one, but not the other,' he snarled, andso turned his rounded back upon me and went peering and blinking outof the room.

　　"That was my singular interview with Professor Moriarty. I confessthat it left an unpleasant effect upon my mind. His soft, precisefashion of speech leaves a conviction of sincerity which a merebully could not produce. Of course, you will say: 'Why not take policeprecautions against him?' The reason is that I am well convincedthat it is from his agents the blow would fall. I have the best ofproofs that it would be so."

　　"You have already been assaulted?"

　　"My dear Watson, Professor Moriarty is not a man who lets thegrass grow under his feet. I went out about midday to transact somebusiness in Oxford Street. As I passed the corner which leads fromBentinck Street on to the Welbeck Street crossing a two-horse vanfuriously driven whizzed round and was on me like a flash. I sprangfor the foot-path and saved myself by the fraction of a second. Thevan dashed round by Marylebone Lane and was gone in an instant. I keptto the pavement after that, Watson, but as I walked down Vere Street abrick came down from the roof of one of the houses and was shatteredto fragments at my feet. I called the police and had the placeexamined. There were slates and bricks piled up on the roofpreparatory to some repairs, and they would have me believe that thewind had toppled over one of these. Of course I knew better, but Icould prove nothing. I took a cab after that and reached mybrother's rooms in Pall Mall, where I spent the day. Now I have comeround to you, and on my way I was attacked by a rough with a bludgeon.I knocked him down, and the police have him in custody; but I can tellyou with the most absolute confidence that no possible connection willever be traced between the gentleman upon whose front teeth I havebarked my knuckles and the retiring mathematical coach, who is, Idaresay, working out problems upon a black-board ten miles away. Youwill not wonder, Watson, that my first act on entering your roomswas to close your shutters, and that I have been compelled to ask yourpermission to leave the house by some less conspicuous exit than thefront door."

　　I had often admired my friend's courage, but never more than now, ashe sat quietly checking off a series of incidents which must havecombined to make up a day of horror.

　　"You will spend the night here?" I said.

　　"No, my friend, you might find me a dangerous guest. I have my planslaid, and all will be well. Matters have gone so far now that they canmove without my help as far as the arrest goes, though my presenceis necessary for a conviction. It is obvious, therefore, that I cannotdo better than get away for the few days which remain before thepolice are at liberty to act. It would be a great pleasure to me,therefore, if you could come on to the Continent with me.""The practice is quiet," said I, "and I have an accommodatingneighbour. I should be glad to come."

　　"And to start to-morrow morning?"

　　"If necessary."

　　"Oh, yes, it is most necessary. Then these are your instructions,and I beg, my dear Watson, that you will obey them to the letter,for you are now playing a double-handed game with me against thecleverest rogue and the most powerful syndicate of criminals inEurope. Now listen! You will dispatch whatever luggage you intend totake by a trusty messenger unaddressed to Victoria to-night. In themorning you will send for a hansom, desiring your man to takeneither the first nor the second which may present itself. Into thishansom you will jump, and you will drive to the Strand end of theLowther Arcade, handing the address to the cabman upon a slip ofpaper, with a request that he will not throw it away. Have your fareready, and the instant that your cab stops, dash through the Arcade,timing yourself to reach the other side at a quarter-past nine. Youwill find a small brougham waiting close to the curb, driven by afellow with a heavy black cloak tipped at the collar with red. Intothis you will step, and you will reach Victoria in time for theContinental express."

　　"Where shall I meet you?"

　　"At the station. The second first-class carriage from the front willbe reserved for us."

　　"The carriage is our rendezvous, then?"

　　"Yes."

　　It was in vain that I asked Holmes to remain for the evening. It wasevident to me that he thought he might bring trouble to the roof hewas under, and that that was the motive which impelled him to go. Witha few hurried words as to our plans for the morrow he rose and cameout with me into the garden, clambering over the wall which leads intoMortimer Street, and immediately whistling for a hansom, in which Iheard him drive away.

　　In the morning I obeyed Holmes's injunctions to the letter. A hansomwas procured with such precautions as would prevent its being onewhich was placed ready for us, and I drove immediately after breakfastto the Lowther Arcade, through which I hurried at the top of my speed.A brougham was waiting with a very massive driver wrapped in a darkcloak, who, the instant that I had stepped in, whipped up the horseand rattled off to Victoria Station. On my alighting there he turnedthe carriage, and dashed away again without so much as a look in mydirection.

　　So far all had gone admirably. My luggage was waiting for me, andI had no difficulty in finding the carriage which Holmes hadindicated, the less so as it was the only one in the train which wasmarked "Engaged." My only source of anxiety now was the non-appearanceof Holmes. The station clock marked only seven minutes from the timewhen we were due to start. In vain I searched among the groups oftravellers and leave-takers for the lithe figure of my friend. Therewas no sign of him. I spent a few minutes in assisting a venerableItalian priest, who was endeavouring to make a porter understand, inhis broken English, that his luggage was to be booked through toParis. Then, having taken another look round, I returned to mycarriage, where I found that the porter, in spite of the ticket, hadgiven me my decrepit Italian friend as a travelling companion. Itwas useless for me to explain to him that his presence was anintrusion, for my Italian was even more limited than his English, so Ishrugged my shoulders resignedly, and continued to look outanxiously for my friend. A chill of fear had come over me, as Ithought that his absence might mean that some blow had fallen duringthe night. Already the doors had all been shut and the whistleblown, when-

　　"My dear Watson," said a voice, "you have not even condescended tosay good-morning.'

　　I turned in uncontrollable astonishment. The aged ecclesiastic hadturned his face towards me. For an instant the wrinkles weresmoothed away, the nose drew away from the chin, the lower lipceased to protrude and the mouth to mumble, the dull eyes regainedtheir fire, the drooping figure expanded. The next the whole framecollapsed again, and Holmes had gone as quickly as he had come."Good heavens!" I cried, "how you startled me!"

　　"Every precaution is still necessary," he whispered. "I havereason to think that they are hot upon our trail. Ah, there isMoriarty himself."

　　The train had already begun to move as Holmes spoke. Glancingback, I saw a tall man pushing his way furiously through the crowd,and waving his hand as if he desired to have the train stopped. It wastoo late, however, for we were rapidly gathering momentum, and aninstant later had shot clear of the station.

　　"With all our precautions, you see that we have cut it rather fine,"said Holmes, laughing. He rose, and throwing off the black cassock andhat which had formed his disguise, he packed them away in a hand-bag."Have you seen the morning paper, Watson?"

　　"No."

　　"You haven't seen about Baker Street, then?"

　　"Baker Street?"

　　"They set fire to our rooms last night. No great harm was done.""Good heavens, Holmes, this is intolerable!"

　　"They must have lost my track completely after their bludgeonman wasarrested. Otherwise they could not have imagined that I had returnedto my rooms. They have evidently taken the precaution of watching you,however, and that is what has brought Moriarty to Victoria. Youcould not have made any slip in coming?"

　　"I did exactly what you advised."

　　"Did you find your brougham?"

　　"Yes, it was waiting."

　　"Did you recognize your coachman?"

　　"No."

　　"It was my brother Mycroft. It is an advantage to get about insuch a case without taking a mercenary into your confidence. But wemust plan what we are to do about Moriarty now."

　　"As this is an express, and as the boat runs in connection withit, I should think we have shaken him off very effectively.""My dear Watson, you evidently did not realize my meaning when Isaid that this man may be taken as being quite on the sameintellectual plane as myself. You do not imagine that if I were thepursuer I should allow myself to be baffled by so slight anobstacle. Why, then, should you think so meanly of him?""What will he do?"

　　"What I should do."

　　"What would you do, then?"

　　"Engage a special."

　　"But it must be late."

　　"By no means. This train stops at Canterbury; and there is always atleast a quarter of an hour's delay at the boat. He will catch usthere."

　　"One would think that we were the criminals. Let us have himarrested on his arrival."

　　"It would be to ruin the work of three months. We should get the bigfish, but the smaller would dart right and left out of the net. OnMonday we should have them all. No, an arrest is inadmissible.""What then?"

　　"We shall get out at Canterbury."

　　"And then?"

　　"Well, then we must make a cross-country journey to Newhaven, and soover to Dieppe. Moriarty will again do what I should do. He will geton to Paris, mark down our luggage, and wait for two days at thedepot. In the meantime we shall treat ourselves to a couple ofcarpet-bags, encourage the manufactures of the countries through whichwe travel, and make our way at our leisure into Switzerland, viaLuxembourg and Basle."

　　At Canterbury, therefore, we alighted, only to find that we shouldhave to wait an hour before we could get a train to Newhaven.I was still looking rather ruefully after the rapidly disappearingluggage-van which contained my wardrobe, when Holmes pulled mysleeve and pointed up the line.

　　"Already, you see," said he.

　　Far away, from among the Kentish woods there rose a thin spray ofsmoke. A minute later a carriage and engine could be seen flying alongthe open curve which leads to the station. We had hardly time totake our place behind a pile of luggage when it passed with a rattleand a roar, beating a blast of hot air into our faces.

　　"There he goes," said Holmes, as we watched the carriage swing androck over the points. "There are limits, you see, to our friend'sintelligence. It would have been a coup-mattre had he deduced what Iwould deduce and acted accordingly."

　　"And what would he have done had he overtaken us?"

　　"There cannot be the least doubt that he would have made a murderousattack upon me. It is, however, a game at which two may play. Thequestion now is whether we should take a premature lunch here, orrun our chance of starving before we reach the buffet at Newhaven."We made our way to Brussels that night and spent two days there,moving on upon the third day as far as Strasbourg. On the Mondaymorning Holmes had telegraphed to the London police, and in theevening we found a reply waiting for us at our hotel. Holmes tore itopen, and then with a bitter curse hurled it into the grate."I might have known it!" he groaned. "He has escaped!"

　　"Moriarty?"

　　"They have secured the whole gang with the exception of him. Hehas given them the slip. Of course, when I had left the countrythere was no one to cope with him. But I did think that I had putthe game in their hands. I think that you had better return toEngland, Watson."

　　"Why?"

　　"Because you will find me a dangerous companion now. This man'soccupation is gone. He is lost if he returns to London. If I readhis character right he will devote his whole energies to revenginghimself upon me. He said as much in our short interview, and I fancythat he meant it. I should certainly recommend you to return to yourpractice."

　　It was hardly an appeal to be successful with one who was an oldcampaigner as well as an old friend. We sat in the Strasbourgsalle-a-manger arguing the question for half an hour, but the samenight we had resumed our journey and were well on our way to Geneva.For a charming week we wandered up the valley of the Rhone, andthen, branching off at Leuk, we made our way over the Gemmi Pass,still deep in snow, and so, by way of Interlaken, to Meiringen. It wasa lovely trip, the dainty green of the spring below, the virginwhite of the winter above; but it was clear to me that never for oneinstant did Holmes forget the shadow which lay across him. In thehomely Alpine villages or in the lonely mountain passes, I could stilltell by his quick glancing eyes and his sharp scrutiny of every facethat passed us, that he was well convinced that, walk where wewould, we could not walk ourselves clear of the danger which wasdogging our footsteps.

　　Once, I remember, as we passed over the Gemmi, and walked alongthe border of the melancholy Daubensee, a large rock which had beendislodged from the ridge upon our right clattered down and roared intothe lake behind us. In an instant Holmes had raced up on to the ridge,and, standing upon a lofty pinnacle, craned his neck in everydirection. It was in vain that our guide assured him that a fall ofstones was a common chance in the springtime at that spot. He saidnothing, but he smiled at me with the air of a man who sees thefulfillment of that which he had expected.

　　And yet for all his watchfulness he was never depressed. On thecontrary, I can never recollect having seen him in such exuberantspirits. Again and again he recurred to the fact that if he could beassured that society was freed from Professor Moriarty he wouldcheerfully bring his own career to a conclusion.

　　"I think that I may go so far as to say, Watson, that I have notlived wholly in vain," he remarked. "If my record were closed to-nightI could still survey it with equanimity. The air of London is thesweeter for my presence. In over a thousand cases I am not awarethat I have ever used my powers upon the wrong side. Of late I havebeen tempted to look into the problems furnished by nature rather thanthose more superficial ones for which our artificial state ofsociety is responsible. Your memoirs will draw to an end, Watson, uponthe day that I crown my career by the capture or extinction of themost dangerous and capable criminal in Europe."

　　I shall be brief, and yet exact, in the little which remains forme to tell. It is not a subject on which I would willingly dwell,and yet I am conscious that a duty devolves upon me to omit no detail.It was on the third of May that we reached the little village ofMeiringen, where we put up at the Englischer Hof, then kept by PeterSteiler the elder. Our landlord was an intelligent man and spokeexcellent English, having served for three years as waiter at theGrosvenor Hotel in London. At his advice, on the afternoon of thefourth we set off together, with the intention of crossing the hillsand spending the night at the hamlet of Rosenlaui. We had strictinjunctions, however, on no account to pass the falls ofReichenbach, which are about halfway up the hills, without making asmall detour to see them.

　　It is, indeed, a fearful place. The torrent, swollen the meltingsnow, plunges into a tremendous abyss, from which the spray rolls uplike the smoke from a burning house. The shaft into which the riverhurls itself is an immense chasm, lined by glistening coal-black rock,and narrowing into a creaming, boiling pit of incalculable depth,which brims over and shoots the stream onward over its jagged lip. Thelong sweep of green water roaring forever down, and the thickflickering curtain of spray hissing forever upward, turn a man giddywith their constant whirl and clamour. We stood near the edgepeering down at the gleam of the breaking water far below us againstthe black rocks, and listening to the half-human shout which camebooming up with the spray out of the abyss.

　　The path has been cut halfway round the fall to afford a completeview, but it ends abruptly, and the traveller has to return as hecame. We had turned to do so, when we saw a Swiss lad come runningalong it with a letter in his hand. It bore the mark of the hotelwhich we had just left and was addressed to me by the landlord. Itappeared that within a very few minutes of our leaving, an Englishlady had arrived who was in the last stage of consumption. She hadwintered at Davos Platz and was journeying now to join her friendsat Lucerne, when a sudden hemorrhage had overtaken her. It was thoughtthat she could hardly live a few hours, but it would be a greatconsolation to her to see an English doctor, and, if I would onlyreturn, etc. The good Steiler assured me in a postscript that he wouldhimself look upon my compliance as a very great favour, since the ladyabsolutely refused to see a Swiss physician, and he could not but feelthat he was incurring a great responsibility.

　　The appeal was one which could not be ignored. It was impossibleto refuse the request of a fellow-countrywoman dying in a strangeland. Yet I had my scruples about leaving Holmes. It was finallyagreed, however, that he should retain the young Swiss messengerwith him as guide and companion while I returned to Meiringen. Myfriend would stay some little time at the fall, he said, and wouldthen walk slowly over the hill to Rosenlaui, where I was to rejoin himin the evening. As I turned away I saw Holmes, with his back against arock and his arms folded, gazing down at the rush of the waters. Itwas the last that I was ever destined to see of him in this world.When I was near the bottom of the descent I looked back. It wasimpossible, from that position, to see the fall, but I could see thecurving path which winds over the shoulder of the hills and leads toit. Along this a man was, I remember, walking very rapidly.I could see his black figure clearly outlined against the greenbehind him. I noted him, and the energy with which he walked, but hepassed from my mind again as I hurried on upon my errand.It may have been a little over an hour before I reached Meiringen.Old Steiler was standing at the porch of his hotel.

　　"Well," said I, as I came hurrying up, "I trust that she is noworse?"

　　A look of surprise passed over his face, and at the first quiverof his eyebrows my heart turned to lead in my breast.

　　"You did not write this?" I said, pulling the letter from my pocket."There is no sick Englishwoman in the hotel?"

　　"Certainly not!" he cried. "But it has the hotel mark upon it! Ha,it must have been written by that tall Englishman who came in afteryou had gone. He said-"

　　But I waited for none of the landlord's explanation. In a tingleof fear I was already running down the village street, and makingfor the path which I had so lately descended. It had taken me anhour to come down. For all my efforts two more had passed before Ifound myself at the fall of Reichenbach once more. There wasHolmes's Alpine-stock still leaning against the rock by which I hadleft him. But there was no sign of him, and it was in vain that Ishouted. My only answer was my own voice reverberating in a rollingecho from the cliffs around me.

　　It was the sight of that Alpine-stock which turned me cold and sick.He had not gone to Rosenlaui, then. He had remained on that three-footpath, with sheer wall on one side and sheer drop on the other, untilhis enemy had overtaken him. The young Swiss had gone too. He hadprobably been in the pay of Moriarty and had left the two mentogether. And then what had happened? Who was to tell us what hadhappened then?

　　I stood for a minute or two to collect myself, for I was dazedwith the horror of the thing. Then I began to think of Holmes's ownmethods and to try to practise them in reading this tragedy. It was,alas, only too easy to do. During our conversation we had not goneto the end of the path, and the Alpine-stock marked the place where wehad stood. The blackish soil is kept forever soft by the incessantdrift of spray, and a bird would leave its tread upon it. Two lines offootmarks were clearly marked along the farther end of the path,both leading away from me. There were none returning. A few yards fromthe end the soil was all ploughed up into a patch of mud, and thebrambles and ferns which fringed the chasm were torn and bedraggled. Ilay upon my face and peered over with the spray spouting up all aroundme. It had darkened since I left, and now I could only see here andthere the glistening of moisture upon the black walls, and far awaydown at the end of the shaft the gleam of the broken water. I shouted;but only that same half-human cry of the fall was borne back to mycars.

　　But it was destined that I should, after all, have a last word ofgreeting from my friend and comrade. I have said that his Alpine-stockhad been left leaning against a rock which jutted on to the path. Fromthe top of this boulder the gleam of something bright caught my eye,and raising my hand I found that it came from the silvercigarette-case which he used to carry. As I took it up a smallsquare of paper upon which it had lain fluttered down on to theground. Unfolding it, I found that it consisted of three pages tornfrom his notebook and addressed to me. It was characteristic of theman that the direction was as precise, and the writing as firm andclear, as though it had been written in his study.

　　MY DEAR WATSON [it said]:

　　I write these few lines through the courtesy of Mr. Moriarty,who awaits my convenience for the final discussion of thosequestions which lie between us. He has been giving me a sketch ofthe methods by which he avoided the English police and kept himselfinformed of our movements. They certainly confirm the very highopinion which I had formed of his abilities. I am pleased to thinkthat I shall be able to free society from any further effects of hispresence, though I fear that it is at a cost which will give pain tomy friends, and especially, my dear Watson, to you. I have alreadyexplained to you, however, that my career had in any case reachedits crisis, and that no possible conclusion to it could be morecongenial to me than this. Indeed, if I may make a full confessionto you, I was quite convinced that the letter from Meiringen was ahoax, and I allowed you to depart on that errand under thepersuasion that some development of this sort would follow. TellInspector Patterson that the papers which he needs to convict the gangare in pigeonhole M., done up in a blue envelope and inscribed"Moriarty." I made every disposition of my property before leavingEngland and handed it to my brother Mycroft. Pray give my greetings toMrs. Watson, and believe me to be, my dear fellow,

　　Very sincerely yours,

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES.

　　A few words may suffice to tell the little that remains. Anexamination by experts leaves little doubt that a personal contestbetween the two men ended, as it could hardly fail to end in such asituation, in their reeling over, locked in each other's arms. Anyattempt at recovering the bodies was absolutely hopeless, and there,deep down in that dreadful cauldron of swirling water and seethingfoam, will lie for all time the most dangerous criminal and theforemost champion of the law of their generation. The Swiss youthwas never found again, and there can be no doubt that he was one ofthe numerous agents whom Moriarty kept in his employ. As to thegang, it will be within the memory of the public how completely theevidence which Holmes had accumulated exposed their organization,and how heavily the hand of the dead man weighed upon them. Of theirterrible chief few details came out during the proceedings, and if Ihave now been compelled to make a clear statement of his career, it isdue to those injudicious champions who have endeavoured to clear hismemory by attacks upon him whom I shall ever regard as the best andthe wisest man whom I have ever known.

　　THE END

　　.

　　THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　The Five Orange Pips

　　When I glance over my notes and records of the Sherlock Holmescases between the years '82 and '90, I am faced by so many whichpresent strange and interesting features that it is no easy matterto know which to choose and which to leave.  Some, however, havealready gained publicity through the papers, and others have notoffered a field for those peculiar qualities which my friendpossessed in so high a degree, and which it is the object of thesepapers to illustrate.  Some, too, have baffled his analyticalskill, and would be, as narratives, beginnings without an ending,while others have been but partially cleared up, and have theirexplanations founded rather upon conjecture and surmise than onthat absolute logical proof which was so dear to him.  There is,however, one of these last which was so remarkable in its detailsand so startling in its results that I am tempted to give someaccount of it in spite of the fact that there are points inconnection with it which never have been, and probably never willbe, entirely cleared up.

　　The year '87 furnished us with a long series of cases ofgreater or less interest, of which I retain the records.  Among myheadings under this one twelve months I find an account of theadventure of the Paradol Chamber, of the Amateur MendicantSociety, who held a luxurious club in the lower vault of afurniture warehouse, of the facts connected with the loss of theBritish bark Sophy Anderson, of the singular adventures of theGrice Patersons in the island of Uffa, and finally of theCamberwell poisoning case.  In the latter, as may be remembered,Sherlock Holmes was able, by winding up the dead man's watch, toprove that it had been wound up two hours before, and thattherefore the deceased had gone to bed within that time--adeduction which was of the greatest importance in clearing up thecase.  All these I may sketch out at some future date, but none ofthem present such singular features as the strange train ofcircumstances which I have now taken up my pen to describe.It was in the latter days of September, and the equinoctialgales had set in with exceptional violence.  All day the wind hadscreamed and the rain had beaten against the windows, so that evenhere in the heart of great, hand-made London we were forced toraise our minds for the instant from the routine of life, and torecognize the presence of those great elemental forces whichshriek at mankind through the bars of his civilization, likeuntamed beasts in a cage.  As evening drew in, the storm grewhigher and louder, and the wind cried and sobbed like a child inthe chimney.  Sherlock Holmes sat moodily at one side of thefireplace cross-indexing his records of crime, while I at theother was deep in one of Clark Russell's fine sea-stories untilthe howl of the gale from without seemed to blend with the text,and the splash of the rain to lengthen out into the long swash ofthe sea waves.  My wife was on a visit to her mother's, and for afew days I was a dweller once more in my old quarters at BakerStreet.

　　"Why," said I, glancing up at my companion, "that was surelythe bell.  Who could come to-night?  Some friend of yours,perhaps?"

　　"Except yourself I have none," he answered.  "I do not

　　encourage visitors."

　　"A client, then?"

　　"If so, it is a serious case.  Nothing less would bring a manout on such a day and at such an hour.  But I take it that it ismore likely to be some crony of the landlady's."

　　Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his conjecture, however, forthere came a step in the passage and a tapping at the door.  Hestretched out his long arm to turn the lamp away from himself andtowards the vacant chair upon which a newcomer must sit.  "Comein!" said he.

　　The man who entered was young, some two-and-twenty at theoutside, well-groomed and trimly clad, with something ofrefinement and delicacy in his bearing.  The streaming umbrellawhich he held in his hand, and his long shining waterproof told ofthe fierce weather through which he had come.  He looked about himanxiously in the glare of the lamp, and I could see that his facewas pale and his eyes heavy, like those of a man who is weigheddown with some great anxiety.

　　"I owe you an apology," he said, raising his golden pince-nezto his eyes.  "I trust that I am not intruding.  I fear that Ihave brought some traces of the storm and rain into your snugchamber."

　　"Give me your coat and umbrella," said Holmes.  "They may resthere on the hook and will be dry presently.  You have come up fromthe south-west, I see."

　　"Yes, from Horsham."

　　"That clay and chalk mixture which I see upon your toe caps isquite distinctive."

　　"I have come for advice."

　　"That is easily got."

　　"And help."

　　"That is not always so easy."

　　"I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes.  I heard from Major

　　Prendergast how you saved him in the Tankerville Club scandal.""Ah, of course.  He was wrongfully accused of cheating atcards."

　　"He said that you could solve anything."

　　"He said too much."

　　"That you are never beaten."

　　"I have been beaten four times--three times by men, and onceby a woman."

　　"But what is that compared with the number of your successes?""It is true that I have been generally successful."

　　"Then you may be so with me."

　　"I beg that you will draw your chair up to the fire and favourme with some details as to your case."

　　"It is no ordinary one."

　　"None of those which come to me are.  I am the last court ofappeal."

　　"And yet I question, sir, whether, in all your experience, youhave ever listened to a more mysterious and inexplicable chain ofevents than those which have happened in my own family.""You fill me with interest," said Holmes.  "Pray give us theessential facts from the commencement, and I can afterwardsquestion you as to those details which seem to me to be mostimportant."

　　The young man pulled his chair up and pushed his wet feet outtowards the blaze.

　　"My name," said he, "is John Openshaw, but my own affairshave, as far as I can understand, little to do with this awfulbusiness.  It is a hereditary matter; so in order to give you anidea of the facts, I must go back to the commencement of theaffair.

　　"You must know that my grandfather had two sons--my uncleElias and my father Joseph.  My father had a small factory atCoventry, which he enlarged at the time of the invention ofbicycling.  He was a patentee of the Openshaw unbreakable tire,and his business met with such success that he was able to sell itand to retire upon a handsome competence.

　　"My uncle Elias emigrated to America when he was a young manand became a planter in Florida, where he was reported to havedone very well.  At the time of the war he fought in Jackson'sarmy, and afterwards under Hood, where he rose to be a colonel.When Lee laid down his arms my uncle returned to his plantation,where he remained for three or four years.  About 1869 or 1870 hecame back to Europe and took a small estate in Sussex, nearHorsham.  He had made a very considerable fortune in the States,and his reason for leaving them was his aversion to the negroes,and his dislike of the Republican policy in extending thefranchise to them.  He was a singular man, fierce and

　　quick-tempered, very foul-mouthed when he was angry, and of a mostretiring disposition.  During all the years that he lived atHorsham, I doubt if ever he set foot in the town.  He had a gardenand two or three fields round his house, and there he would takehis exercise, though very often for weeks on end he would neverleave his room.  He drank a great deal of brandy and smoked veryheavily, but he would see no society and did not want any friends,not even his own brother.

　　"He didn't mind me; in fact, he took a fancy to me, for at thetime when he saw me first I was a youngster of twelve or so.  Thiswould be in the year 1878, after he had been eight or nine yearsin England.  He begged my father to let me live with him, and hewas very kind to me in his way.  When he was sober he used to befond of playing backgammon and draughts with me, and he would makeme his representative both with the servants and with thetradespeople, so that by the time that I was sixteen I was quitemaster of the house.  I kept all the keys and could go where Iliked and do what I liked, so long as I did not disturb him in hisprivacy.  There was one singular exception, however, for he had asingle room, a lumber-room up among the attics, which wasinvariably locked, and which he would never permit either me oranyone else to enter.  With a boy's curiosity I have peepedthrough the keyhole, but I was never able to see more than such acollection of old trunks and bundles as would be expected in sucha room.

　　"One day--it was in March, 1883--a letter with a foreign stamplay upon the table in front of the colonel's plate.  It was not acommon thing for him to receive letters, for his bills were allpaid in ready money, and he had no friends of any sort.  `FromIndia!' said he as he took it up, `Pondicherry postmark!  What canthis be?'  Opening it hurriedly, out there jumped five little driedorange pips, which pattered down upon his plate.  I began to laughat this, but the laugh was struck from my lips at the sight of hisface.  His lip had fallen, his eyes were protruding, his skin thecolour of putty, and he glared at the envelope which he still heldin his trembling hand, `K. K. K.!' he shrieked, and then, `My God,my God, my sins have overtaken me!'

　　"`What is it, uncle?' I cried.

　　"`Death,' said he, and rising from the table he retired to hisroom, leaving me palpitating with horror.  I took up the envelopeand saw scrawled in red ink upon the inner flap, just above thegum, the letter K three times repeated.  There was nothing elsesave the five dried pips.  What could be the reason of hisoverpowering terror?  I left the breakfast-table, and as Iascended the stair I met him coming down with an old rusty key,which must have belonged to the attic, in one hand, and a smallbrass box, like a cashbox, in the other.

　　"`They may do what they like, but I'll checkmate them still,'said he with an oath.  `Tell Mary that I shall want a fire in myroom to-day, and send down to Fordham, the Horsham lawyer.'"I did as he ordered, and when the lawyer arrived I was askedto step up to the room.  The fire was burning brightly, and in thegrate there was a mass of black, fluffy ashes, as of burned paper,while the brass box stood open and empty beside it.  As I glancedat the box I noticed, with a start, that upon the lid was printedthe treble K which I had read in the morning upon the envelope."`I wish you, John,' said my uncle, `to witness my will.  Ileave my estate, with all its advantages and all its

　　disadvantages, to my brother, your father, whence it will, nodoubt, descend to you.  If you can enjoy it in peace, well andgood!  If you find you cannot, take my advice, my boy, and leaveit to your deadliest enemy.  I am sorry to give you such atwo-edged thing, but I can't say what turn things are going totake.  Kindly sign the paper where Mr. Fordham shows you.'"I signed the paper as directed, and the lawyer took it awaywith him.  The singular incident made, as you may think, thedeepest impression upon me, and I pondered over it and turned itevery way in my mind without being able to make anything of it.Yet I could not shake off the vague feeling of dread which it leftbehind, though the sensation grew less keen as the weeks passed,and nothing happened to disturb the usual routine of our lives.  Icould see a change in my uncle, however.  He drank more than ever,and he was less inclined for any sort of society.  Most of histime he would spend in his room, with the door locked upon theinside, but sometimes he would emerge in a sort of drunken frenzyand would burst out of the house and tear about the garden with arevolver in his hand, screaming out that he was afraid of no man,and that he was not to be cooped up, like a sheep in a pen, by manor devil.  When these hot fits were over, however, he would rushtumultuously in at the door and lock and bar it behind him, like aman who can brazen it out no longer against the terror which liesat the roots of his soul.  At such times I have seen his face,even on a cold day, glisten with moisture, as though it were newraised from a basin.

　　"Well, to come to an end of the matter, Mr. Holmes, and not toabuse your patience, there came a night when he made one of thosedrunken sallies from which he never came back.  We found him, whenwe went to search for him, face downward in a little green-scummedpool, which lay at the foot of the garden.  There was no sign ofany violence, and the water was but two feet deep, so that thejury, having regard to his known eccentricity, brought in averdict of `suicide.'  But I, who knew how he winced from the verythought of death, had much ado to persuade myself that he had goneout of his way to meet it.  The matter passed, however, and myfather entered into possession of the estate, and of some 14,000 pounds,which lay to his credit at the bank."

　　"One moment," Holmes interposed, "your statement is, I

　　foresee, one of the most remarkable to which I have ever listened.Let me have the date of the reception by your uncle of the letter,and the date of his supposed suicide."

　　"The letter arrived on March 10, 1883.  His death was sevenweeks later, upon the night of May 2d."

　　"Thank you.  Pray proceed."

　　"When my father took over the Horsham property, he, at myrequest, made a careful examination of the attic, which had beenalways locked up.  We found the brass box there, although itscontents had been destroyed.  On the inside of the cover was apaper label, with the initials of K. K. K. repeated upon it, and`Letters, memoranda, receipts, and a register' written beneath.These, we presume, indicated the nature of the papers which hadbeen destroyed by Colonel Openshaw.  For the rest, there wasnothing of much importance in the attic save a great manyscattered papers and note-books bearing upon my uncle's life inAmerica.  Some of them were of the war time and showed that he haddone his duty well and had borne the repute of a brave soldier.Others were of a date during the reconstruction of the Southernstates, and were mostly concerned with politics, for he hadevidently taken a strong part in opposing the carpet-bagpoliticians who had been sent down from the North.

　　"Well, it was the beginning of '84 when my father came to liveat Horsham, and all went as well as possible with us until theJanuary of '85.  On the fourth day after the new year I heard myfather give a sharp cry of surprise as we sat together at thebreakfast-table.  There he was, sitting with a newly openedenvelope in one hand and five dried orange pips in the

　　outstretched palm of the other one.  He had always laughed at whathe called my cock-and-bull story about the colonel, but he lookedvery scared and puzzled now that the same thing had come uponhimself.

　　"`Why, what on earth does this mean, John?' he stammered."My heart had turned to lead.  `It is K. K. K.,' said I."He looked inside the envelope.  `So it is,' he cried.  `Hereare the very letters.  But what is this written above them?'"`Put the papers on the sundial,' I read, peeping over hisshoulder.

　　"`What papers?  What sundial?' he asked.

　　"`The sundial in the garden.  There is no other,' said I; `butthe papers must be those that are destroyed.'

　　"`Pooh!' said he, gripping hard at his courage.  `We are in acivilized land here, and we can't have tomfoolery of this kind.Where does the thing come from?'

　　"`From Dundee,' I answered, glancing at the postmark.

　　"`Some preposterous practical joke,' said he.  `What have I todo with sundials and papers?  I shall take no notice of suchnonsense.'

　　"`I should certainly speak to the police,' I said.

　　"`And be laughed at for my pains.  Nothing of the sort.'"`Then let me do so?'

　　"`No, I forbid you.  I won't have a fuss made about suchnonsense.'

　　"It was in vain to argue with him, for he was a very obstinateman.  I went about, however, with a heart which was full offorebodings.

　　"On the third day after the coming of the letter my fatherwent from home to visit an old friend of his, Major Freebody, whois in command of one of the forts upon Portsdown Hill.  I was gladthat he should go, for it seemed to me that he was farther fromdanger when he was away from home.  In that, however, I was inerror.  Upon the second day of his absence I received a telegramfrom the major, imploring me to come at once.  My father hadfallen over one of the deep chalk-pits which abound in theneighbourhood, and was lying senseless, with a shattered skull.  Ihurried to him, but he passed away without having ever recoveredhis consciousness.  He had, as it appears, been returning fromFareham in the twilight, and as the country was unknown to him,and the chalk-pit unfenced, the jury had no hesitation in bringingin a verdict of `death from accidental causes.'  Carefully as Iexamined every fact connected with his death, I was unable to findanything which could suggest the idea of murder.  There were nosigns of violence, no footmarks, no robbery, no record ofstrangers having been seen upon the roads.  And yet I need nottell you that my mind was far from at ease, and that I waswell-nigh certain that some foul plot had been woven round him."In this sinister way I came into my inheritance.  You willask me why I did not dispose of it?  I answer, because I was wellconvinced that our troubles were in some way dependent upon anincident in my uncle's life, and that the danger would be aspressing in one house as in another.

　　"It was in January, '85, that my poor father met his end, andtwo years and eight months have elapsed since then.  During thattime I have lived happily at Horsham, and I had begun to hope thatthis curse had passed away from the family, and that it had endedwith the last generation.  I had begun to take comfort too soon,however; yesterday morning the blow fell in the very shape inwhich it had come upon my father."

　　The young man took from his waistcoat a crumpled envelope, andturning to the table he shook out upon it five little dried orangepips.

　　"This is the envelope," he continued.  "The postmark isLondon--eastern division.  Within are the very words which wereupon my father's last message: `K. K. K.'; and then `Put thepapers on the sundial.'"

　　"What have you done?" asked Holmes.

　　"Nothing."

　　"Nothing?"

　　"To tell the truth"--he sank his face into his thin, whitehands--"I have felt helpless.  I have felt like one of those poorrabbits when the snake is writhing towards it.  I seem to be inthe grasp of some resistless, inexorable evil, which no foresightand no precautions can guard against."

　　"Tut! tut!" cried Sherlock Holmes.  "You must act, man, or youare lost.  Nothing but energy can save you.  This is no time fordespair."

　　"I have seen the police."

　　"Ah!"

　　"But they listened to my story with a smile.  I am convincedthat the inspector has formed the opinion that the letters are allpractical jokes, and that the deaths of my relations were reallyaccidents, as the jury stated, and were not to be connected withthe warnings."

　　Holmes shook his clenched hands in the air.  "Incredibleimbecility!" he cried.

　　"They have, however, allowed me a policeman, who may remain inthe house with me."

　　"Has he come with you to-night?"

　　"No.  His orders were to stay in the house."

　　Again Holmes raved in the air.

　　"Why did you come to me," he cried, "and, above all, why didyou not come at once?"

　　"I did not know.  It was only to-day that I spoke to MajorPrendergast about my troubles and was advised by him to come toyou."

　　"It is really two days since you had the letter.  We shouldhave acted before this.  You have no further evidence, I suppose,than that which you have placed before us--no suggestive detailwhich might help us?"

　　"There is one thing," said John Openshaw.  He rummaged in hiscoat pocket, and, drawing out a piece of discoloured, blue-tintedpaper, he laid it out upon the table.  "I have some remembrance,"said he, "that on the day when my uncle burned the papers Iobserved that the small, unburned margins which lay amid the asheswere of this particular colour.  I found this single sheet uponthe floor of his room, and I am inclined to think that it may beone of the papers which has, perhaps, fluttered out from among theothers, and in that way has escaped destruction.  Beyond themention of pips, I do not see that it helps us much.  I thinkmyself that it is a page from some private diary.  The writing isundoubtedly my uncle's."

　　Holmes moved the lamp, and we both bent over the sheet ofpaper, which showed by its ragged edge that it had indeed beentorn from a book.  It was headed, "March, 1869," and beneath werethe following enigmatical notices:

　　4th.  Hudson came.  Same old platform.

　　7th.  Set the pips on McCauley, Paramore, and John

　　Swain, of St. Augustine.

　　9th.  McCauley cleared.

　　10th.  John Swain cleared.

　　12th.  Visited Paramore.  All well.

　　"Thank you!" said Holmes, folding up the paper and returningit to our visitor.  "And now you must on no account lose anotherinstant.  We cannot spare time even to discuss what you have toldme.  You must get home instantly and act."

　　"What shall I do?"

　　"There is but one thing to do.  It must be done at once.  Youmust put this piece of paper which you have shown us into thebrass box which you have described.  You must also put in a noteto say that all the other papers were burned by your uncle, andthat this is the only one which remains.  You must assert that insuch words as will carry conviction with them.  Having done this,you must at once put the box out upon the sundial, as directed.Do you understand?"

　　"Entirely."

　　"Do not think of revenge, or anything of the sort, at present.I think that we may gain that by means of the law; but we have ourweb to weave, while theirs is already woven.  The firstconsideration is to remove the pressing danger which threatensyou.  The second is to clear up the mystery and to punish theguilty parties."

　　"I thank you," said the young man, rising and pulling on hisovercoat.  "You have given me fresh life and hope.  I shallcertainly do as you advise."

　　"Do not lose an instant.  And, above all, take care of

　　yourself in the meanwhile, for I do not think that there can be adoubt that you are threatened by a very real and imminent danger.How do you go back?"

　　"By train from Waterloo."

　　"It is not yet nine.  The streets will be crowded, so I trustthat you may be in safety.  And yet you cannot guard yourself tooclosely."

　　"I am armed."

　　"That is well.  To-morrow I shall set to work upon your case.""I shall see you at Horsham, then?"

　　"No, your secret lies in London.  It is there that I shallseek it."

　　"Then I shall call upon you in a day, or in two days, withnews as to the box and the papers.  I shall take your advice inevery particular."  He shook hands with us and took his leave.Outside the wind still screamed and the rain splashed and patteredagainst the windows.  This strange, wild story seemed to have cometo us from amid the mad elements--blown in upon us like a sheet ofsea-weed in a gale--and now to have been reabsorbed by them oncemore.

　　Sherlock Holmes sat for some time in silence, with his headsunk forward and his eyes bent upon the red glow of the fire.Then he lit his pipe, and leaning back in his chair he watched theblue smoke-rings as they chased each other up to the ceiling."I think, Watson," he remarked at last, "that of all our caseswe have had none more fantastic than this."

　　"Save, perhaps, the Sign of Four."

　　"Well, yes.  Save, perhaps, that.  And yet this John Openshawseems to me to be walking amid even greater perils than did theSholtos."

　　"But have you," I asked, "formed any definite conception as towhat these perils are?"

　　"There can be no question as to their nature," he answered."Then what are they?  Who is this K. K. K., and why does hepursue this unhappy family?"

　　Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon thearms of his chair, with his finger-tips together.  "The idealreasoner," he remarked, "would, when he had once been shown asingle fact in all its bearings, deduce from it not only all thechain of events which led up to it but also all the results whichwould follow from it.  As Cuvier could correctly describe a wholeanimal by the contemplation of a single bone, so the observer whohas thoroughly understood one link in a series of incidents shouldbe able to accurately state all the other ones, both before andafter.  We have not yet grasped the results which the reason alonecan attain to.  Problems may be solved in the study which havebaffled all those who have sought a solution by the aid of theirsenses.  To carry the art, however, to its highest pitch, it isnecessary that the reasoner should be able to utilize all thefacts which have come to his knowledge; and this in itselfimplies, as you will readily see, a possession of all knowledge,which, even in these days of free education and encyclopaedias, isa somewhat rare accomplishment.  It is not so impossible, however,that a man should possess all knowledge which is likely to beuseful to him in his work, and this I have endeavoured in my caseto do.  If I remember rightly, you on one occasion, in the earlydays of our friendship, defined my limits in a very precisefashion."

　　"Yes," I answered, laughing.  "It was a singular document.Philosophy, astronomy, and politics were marked at zero, Iremember.  Botany variable, geology profound as regards themud-stains from any region within fifty miles of town, chemistryeccentric, anatomy unsystematic, sensational literature and crimerecords unique, violin-player, boxer, swordsman, lawyer, andself-poisoner by cocaine and tobacco.  Those, I think, were themain points of my analysis."

　　Holmes grinned at the last item.  "Well," he said, "I say now,as I said then, that a man should keep his little brain-atticstocked with all the furniture that he is likely to use, and therest he can put away in the lumber-room of his library, where hecan get it if he wants it.  Now, for such a case as the one whichhas been submitted to us to-night, we need certainly to muster allour resources.  Kindly hand me down the letter K of the AmericanEncyclopaedia which stands upon the shelf beside you.  Thank you.Now let us consider the situation and see what may be deduced fromit.  In the first place, we may start with a strong presumptionthat Colonel Openshaw had some very strong reason for leavingAmerica.  Men at his time of life do not change all their habitsand exchange willingly the charming climate of Florida for thelonely life of an English provincial town.  His extreme love ofsolitude in England suggests the idea that he was in fear ofsomeone or something, so we may assume as a working hypothesisthat it was fear of someone or something which drove him fromAmerica.  As to what it was he feared, we can only deduce that byconsidering the formidable letters which were received by himselfand his successors.  Did you remark the postmarks of thoseletters?"

　　"The first was from Pondicherry, the second from Dundee, andthe third from London."

　　"From East London.  What do you deduce from that?"

　　"They are all seaports.  That the writer was on board of aship."

　　"Excellent.  We have already a clue.  There can be no doubtthat the probability--the strong probability--is that the writerwas on board of a ship.  And now let us consider another point.In the case of Pondicherry, seven weeks elapsed between the threatand its fulfillment, in Dundee it was only some three or fourdays.  Does that suggest anything?"

　　"A greater distance to travel."

　　"But the letter had also a greater distance to come."

　　"Then I do not see the point."

　　"There is at least a presumption that the vessel in which theman or men are is a sailing-ship.  It looks as if they always senttheir singular warning or token before them when starting upontheir mission.  You see how quickly the deed followed the signwhen it came from Dundee.  If they had come from Pondicherry in asteamer they would have arrived almost as soon as their letter.But, as a matter of fact, seven weeks elapsed.  I think that thoseseven weeks represented the difference between the mail-boat whichbrought the letter and the sailing vessel which brought thewriter."

　　"It is possible."

　　"More than that.  It is probable.  And now you see the deadlyurgency of this new case, and why I urged young Openshaw tocaution.  The blow has always fallen at the end of the time whichit would take the senders to travel the distance.  But this onecomes from London, and therefore we cannot count upon delay.""Good God!" I cried.  "What can it mean, this relentlesspersecution?"

　　"The papers which Openshaw carried are obviously of vitalimportance to the person or persons in the sailing-ship.  I thinkthat it is quite clear that there must be more than one of them.A single man could not have carried out two deaths in such a wayas to deceive a coroner's jury.  There must have been several init, and they must have been men of resource and determination.Their papers they mean to have, be the holder of them who it may.In this way you see K. K. K. ceases to be the initials of anindividual and becomes the badge of a society."

　　"But of what society?"

　　"Have you never--" said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward andsinking his voice --"have you never heard of the Ku Klux Klan?""I never have."

　　Holmes turned over the leaves of the book upon his knee."Here it is," said he presently:

　　"Ku Klux Klan.  A name derived from the fanciful

　　resemblance to the sound produced by cocking a rifle.  Thisterrible secret society was formed by some ex-Confederatesoldiers in the Southern states after the Civil War, and itrapidly formed local branches in different parts of thecountry, notably in Tennessee, Louisiana, the Carolinas,Georgia, and Florida.  Its power was used for politicalpurposes, principally for the terrorizing of the negro votersand the murdering and driving from the country of those whowere opposed to its views.  Its outrages were usually precededby a warning sent to the marked man in some fantastic butgenerally recognized shape--a sprig of oak-leaves in someparts, melon seeds or orange pips in others.  On receivingthis the victim might either openly abjure his former ways, ormight fly from the country.  If he braved the matter out,death would unfailingly come upon him, and usually in somestrange and unforeseen manner.  So perfect was the

　　organization of the society, and so systematic its methods,that there is hardly a case upon record where any man

　　succeeded in braving it with impunity, or in which any of itsoutrages were traced home to the perpetrators.  For some yearsthe organization flourished in spite of the efforts of theUnited States government and of the better classes of thecommunity in the South.  Eventually, in the year 1869, themovement rather suddenly collapsed, although there have beensporadic outbreaks of the same sort since that date.

　　"You will observe," said Holmes, laying down the volume, "thatthe sudden breaking up of the society was coincident with thedisappearance of Openshaw from America with their papers.  It maywell have been cause and effect.  It is no wonder that he and hisfamily have some of the more implacable spirits upon their track.You can understand that this register and diary may implicate someof the first men in the South, and that there may be many who willnot sleep easy at night until it is recovered."

　　"Then the page we have seen--"

　　"Is such as we might expect.  It ran, if I remember right,`sent the pips to A, B, and C'--that is, sent the society'swarning to them.  Then there are successive entries that A and Bcleared, or left the country, and finally that C was visited,with, I fear, a sinister result for C.  Well, I think, Doctor,that we may let some light into this dark place, and I believethat the only chance young Openshaw has in the meantime is to dowhat I have told him.  There is nothing more to be said or to bedone to-night, so hand me over my violin and let us try to forgetfor half an hour the miserable weather and the still moremiserable ways of our fellowmen."

　　It had cleared in the morning, and the sun was shining with asubdued brightness through the dim veil which hangs over the greatcity.  Sherlock Holmes was already at breakfast when I came down."You will excuse me for not waiting for you," said he; "Ihave, I foresee, a very busy day before me in looking into thiscase of young Openshaw's."

　　"What steps will you take?" I asked.

　　"It will very much depend upon the results of my first

　　inquiries.  I may have to go down to Horsham, after all.""You will not go there first?"

　　"No, I shall commence with the City.  Just ring the bell andthe maid will bring up your coffee."

　　As I waited, I lifted the unopened newspaper from the tableand glanced my eye over it.  It rested upon a heading which sent achill to my heart.

　　"Holmes," I cried, "you are too late."

　　"Ah!" said he, laying down his cup, "I feared as much.  Howwas it done?"  He spoke calmly, but I could see that he was deeplymoved.

　　"My eye caught the name of Openshaw, and the heading `TragedyNear Waterloo Bridge.'  Here is the account:

　　"Between nine and ten last night Police-Constable Cook, ofthe H Division, on duty near Waterloo Bridge, heard a cry forhelp and a splash in the water.  The night, however, wasextremely dark and stormy, so that, in spite of the help ofseveral passers-by, it was quite impossible to effect arescue.  The alarm, however, was given, and, by the aid of thewater-police, the body was eventually recovered.  It proved tobe that of a young gentleman whose name, as it appears from anenvelope which was found in his pocket, was John Openshaw, andwhose residence is near Horsham.  It is conjectured that hemay have been hurrying down to catch the last train fromWaterloo Station, and that in his haste and the extremedarkness he missed his path and walked over the edge of one ofthe small landing-places for river steamboats.  The bodyexhibited no traces of violence, and there can be no doubtthat the deceased had been the victim of an unfortunateaccident, which should have the effect of calling the

　　attention of the authorities to the condition of the riversidelanding-stages."

　　We sat in silence for some minutes, Holmes more depressed andshaken than I had ever seen him.

　　"That hurts my pride, Watson," he said at last.  "It is apetty feeling, no doubt, but it hurts my pride.  It becomes apersonal matter with me now, and, if God sends me health, I shallset my hand upon this gang.  That he should come to me for help,and that I should send him away to his death--!"  He sprang fromhis chair and paced about the room in uncontrollable agitation,with a flush upon his sallow cheeks and a nervous clasping andunclasping of his long thin hands.

　　"They must be cunning devils," he exclaimed at last.  "Howcould they have decoyed him down there?  The Embankment is not onthe direct line to the station.  The bridge, no doubt, was toocrowded, even on such a night, for their purpose.  Well, Watson,we shall see who will win in the long run.  I am going out now!""To the police?"

　　"No; I shall be my own police.  When I have spun the web theymay take the flies, but not before."

　　All day I was engaged in my professional work, and it was latein the evening before I returned to Baker Street.  Sherlock Holmeshad not come back yet.  It was nearly ten o'clock before heentered, looking pale and worn.  He walked up to the sideboard,and tearing a piece from the loaf he devoured it voraciously,washing it down with a long draught of water.

　　"You are hungry," I remarked.

　　"Starving.  It had escaped my memory.  I have had nothingsince breakfast."

　　"Nothing?"

　　"Not a bite.  I had no time to think of it."

　　"And how have you succeeded?"

　　"Well."

　　"You have a clue?"

　　"I have them in the hollow of my hand.  Young Openshaw shallnot long remain unavenged.  Why, Watson, let us put their owndevilish trade-mark upon them.  It is well thought of!""What do you mean?"

　　He took an orange from the cupboard, and tearing it to pieceshe squeezed out the pips upon the table.  Of these he took fiveand thrust them into an envelope.  On the inside of the flap hewrote "S. H. for J. O."  Then he sealed it and addressed it to"Captain James Calhoun, Bark Lone Star, Savannah, Georgia.""That will await him when he enters port," said he, chuckling."It may give him a sleepless night.  He will find it as sure aprecursor of his fate as Openshaw did before him."

　　"And who is this Captain Calhoun?"

　　"The leader of the gang.  I shall have the others, but hefirst."

　　"How did you trace it, then?"

　　He took a large sheet of paper from his pocket, all coveredwith dates and names.

　　"I have spent the whole day," said he, "over Lloyd's registersand files of the old papers, following the future career of everyvessel which touched at Pondicherry in January and February in'83.  There were thirty-six ships of fair tonnage which werereported there during those months.  Of these, one, the Lone Star,instantly attracted my attention, since, although it was reportedas having cleared from London, the name is that which is given toone of the states of the Union."

　　"Texas, I think."

　　"I was not and am not sure which; but I knew that the shipmust have an American origin."

　　"What then?"

　　"I searched the Dundee records, and when I found that the barkLone Star was there in January, '85, my suspicion became acertainty.  I then inquired as to the vessels which lay at presentin the port of London."

　　"Yes?"

　　"The Lone Star had arrived here last week.  I went down to theAlbert Dock and found that she had been taken down the river bythe early tide this morning, homeward bound to Savannah.  I wiredto Gravesend and learned that she had passed some time ago, and asthe wind is easterly I have no doubt that she is now past theGoodwins and not very far from the Isle of Wight."

　　"What will you do, then?"

　　"Oh, I have my hand upon him.  He and the two mates, are, as Ilearn, the only native-born Americans in the ship.  The others areFinns and Germans.  I know, also, that they were all three awayfrom the ship last night.  I had it from the stevedore who hasbeen loading their cargo.  By the time that their sailing-shipreaches Savannah the mail-boat will have carried this letter, andthe cable will have informed the police of Savannah that thesethree gentlemen are badly wanted here upon a charge of murder."There is ever a flaw, however, in the best laid of humanplans, and the murderers of John Openshaw were never to receivethe orange pips which would show them that another, as cunning andas resolute as themselves, was upon their track.  Very long andvery severe were the equinoctial gales that year.  We waited longfor news of the Lone Star of Savannah, but none ever reached us.We did at last hear that somewhere far out in the Atlantic ashattered stern-post of the boat was seen swinging in the troughof a wave, with the letters "L. S." carved upon it, and that isall which we shall ever know of the fate of the Lone Star..1893

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE "GLORIA SCOTT"

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　"I have some papers here," said my friend Sherlock Holmes as wesat one winter's night on either side of the fire, "which I reallythink, Watson, that it would be worth your while to glance over. Theseare the documents in the extraordinary case of the Gloria Scott, andthis is the message which struck Justice of the Peace Trevor dead withhorror when he read it."

　　He had picked from a drawer a little tarnished cylinder, and,undoing the tape, he handed me a short note scrawled upon a half-sheetof slate-gray paper.

　　The supply of game for London is going steadily up [it ran].Head-keeper Hudson, we believe, has been now told to receive allorders for fly-paper and for preservation of your hen-pheasant's life.As I glanced up from reading this enigmatical message, I sawHolmes chuckling at the expression upon my face.

　　"You look a little bewildered," said he.

　　"I cannot see how such a message as this could inspire horror. Itseems to me to be rather grotesque than otherwise."

　　"Very likely. Yet the fact remains that the reader, who was afine, robust old man, was knocked clean down by it as if it had beenthe butt end of a pistol."

　　"You arouse my curiosity," said I. "But why did you say just nowthat there were very particular reasons why I should study this case?""Because it was the first in which I was ever engaged."I had often endeavoured to elicit from my companion what had firstturned his mind in the direction of criminal research, but had nevercaught him before in a communicative humour. Now he sat forward in hisarmchair and spread out the documents upon his knees. Then he lithis pipe and sat for some time smoking and turning them over."You never heard me talk of Victor Trevor?" he asked. "He was theonly friend I made during the two years I was at college. I wasnever a very sociable fellow, Watson, always rather fond of mopingin my rooms and working out my own little methods of thought, sothat I never mixed much with the men of my year. Bar fencing andboxing I had few athletic tastes, and then my line of study wasquite distinct from that of the other fellows, so that we had nopoints of contact at all. Trevor was the only man I knew, and thatonly through the accident of his bull terrier freezing on to myankle one morning as I went down to chapel.

　　"It was a prosaic way of forming a friendship, but it was effective.I was laid by the heels for ten days, and Trevor used to come in toinquire after me. At first it was only a minute's chat, but soon hisvisits lengthened, and before the end of the term we were closefriends. He was a hearty, full-blooded fellow, full of spirits andenergy, the very opposite to me in most respects, but we had somesubjects in common, and it was a bond of union when I found that hewas as friendless as I. Finally he invited me down to his father'splace at Donnithorpe, in Norfolk, and I accepted his hospitality for amonth of the long vacation.

　　"Old Trevor was evidently a man of some wealth and consideration,a J. P., and a landed proprietor. Donnithorpe is a little hamletjust to the north of Langmere, in the country of the Broads. The housewas an old-fashioned, widespread, oakbeamed brick building, with afine lime-lined avenue leading up to it. There was excellent wild-duckshooting in the fens, remarkably good fishing, a small but selectlibrary, taken over, as I understood, from a former occupant, and atolerable cook, so that he would be a fastidious man who could not putin a pleasant month there.

　　"Trevor senior was a widower, and my friend his only son."There had been a daughter, I heard, but she had died ofdiphtheria while on a visit to Birmingham. The father interested meextremely. He was a man of little culture, but with a considerableamount of rude strength, both physically and mentally. He knewhardly any books, but he had travelled far, had seen much of theworld, and had remembered all that he had learned. In person he wasa thick-set, burly man with a shock of grizzled hair, a brown,weather-beaten face, and blue eyes which were keen to the verge offierceness. Yet he had a reputation for kindness and charity on thecountryside, and was noted for the leniency of his sentences fromthe bench.

　　"One evening, shortly after my arrival, we were sitting over a glassof port after dinner, when young Trevor began to talk about thosehabits of observation and inference which I had already formed intoa system, although I had not yet appreciated the part which theywere to play in my life. The old man evidently thought that his sonwas exaggerating in his description of one or two trivial featswhich I had performed.

　　"'Come, now, Mr. Holmes,' said he, laughing good-humouredly. 'I'm anexcellent subject, if you can deduce anything from me.'"'I fear there is not very much,' I answered. 'I might suggestthat you have gone about in fear of some personal attack within thelast twelvemonth.'

　　"The laugh faded from his lips, and he stared at me in greatsurprise.

　　"'Well, that's true enough,' said he. 'You know, Victor,' turning tohis son, 'when we broke up that poaching gang they swore to knifeus, and Sir Edward Holly has actually been attacked. I've alwaysbeen on my guard since then, though I have no idea how you know it.'"'You have a very handsome stick,' I answered. 'By the inscription Iobserved that you had not had it more than a year. But you havetaken some pains to bore the head of it and pour melted lead intothe hole so as to make it a formidable weapon. I argued that you wouldnot take such precautions unless you had some danger to fear.'"'Anything else?' he asked, smiling.

　　"'You have boxed a good deal in your youth.'

　　"'Right again. How did you know it? Is my nose knocked a littleout of the straight?'

　　"'No,' said I. 'It is your ears. They have the peculiar flatteningand thickening which marks the boxing man.'

　　"'Anything else?'

　　"'You have done a good deal of digging by your callosities.'"'Made all my money at the gold fields.'

　　"'You have been in New Zealand.'

　　"'Right again.'

　　"'You have visited Japan.'

　　"'Quite true.'

　　"'And you have been most intimately associated with someone whoseinitials were J. A., and whom you afterwards were eager to entirelyforget.'

　　"Mr. Trevor stood slowly up, fixed his large blue eyes upon mewith a strange wild stare, and then pitched forward, with his faceamong the nutshells which strewed the cloth, in a dead faint."You can imagine, Watson, how shocked both his son and I were. Hisattack did not last long, however, for when we undid his collar andsprinkled the water from one of the finger-glasses over his face, hegave a gasp or two and sat up.

　　"'Ah, boys,' said he, forcing a smile, 'I hope I haven'tfrightened you. Strong as I look, there is a weak place in my heart,and it does not take much to knock me over. I don't know how youmanage this, Mr. Holmes, but it seems to me that all the detectives offact and of fancy would be children in your hands. That's your line oflife, sir, and you may take the word of a man who has seen somethingof the world.'

　　"And that recommendation, with the exaggerated estimate of myability with which he prefaced it, was, if you will believe me,Watson, the very first thing which ever made me feel that a professionmight be made out of what had up to that time been the merest hobby.At the moment, however, I was too much concerned at the sudden illnessof my host to think of anything else.

　　"'I hope that I have said nothing to pain you?' said I."'Well, you certainly touched upon rather a tender point. Might Iask how you know, and how much you know?' He spoke now in ahalf-jesting fashion, but a look of terror still lurked at the back ofhis eyes.

　　"'It is simplicity itself,' said I. 'When you bared your arm to drawthat fish into the boat I saw that J. A. had been tattooed in the bendof the elbow. The letters were still legible, but it was perfectlyclear from their blurred appearance, and from the staining of the skinround them, that efforts had been made to obliterate them. It wasobvious, then, that those initials had once been very familiar to you,and that you had afterwards wished to forget them.'

　　"'What an eye you have!' he cried with a sigh of relief. 'It is justas you say. But we won't talk of it. Of all ghosts the ghosts of ourold loves are the worst. Come into the billiard-room and have, a quietcigar.'

　　"From that day, amid all his cordiality, there was always a touch ofsuspicion in Mr. Trevor's manner towards me. Even his son remarked it.'You've given the governor such a turn,' said he, 'that he'll never besure again of what you know and what you don't know.' He did notmean to show it, I am sure, but it was so strongly in his mind that itpeeped out at every action. At last I became so convinced that I wascausing him uneasiness that I drew my visit to a close. On the veryday, however, before I left, an incident occurred which proved inthe sequel to be of importance.

　　"We were sitting out upon the lawn on garden chairs, the three ofus, basking in the sun and admiring the view across the Broads, when amaid came out to say that there was a man at the door who wanted tosee Mr. Trevor.

　　"'What is his name?'asked my host.

　　"'He would not give any.'

　　"'What does he want, then?'

　　"'He says that you know him, and that he only wants a momentsconversation.'

　　"'Show him round here.' An instant afterwards there appeared alittle wizened fellow with a cringing manner and a shambling styleof walking. He wore an open jacket, with a splotch of tar on thesleeve, a red-and-black check shirt, dungaree trousers, and heavyboots badly worn. His face was thin and brown and crafty, with aperpetual smile upon it, which showed an irregular line of yellowteeth, and his crinkled hands were half closed in a way that isdistinctive of sailors. As he came slouching across the lawn I heardMr. Trevor make a sort of hiccoughing noise in his throat, and,jumping out of his chair, he ran into the house. He was back in amoment, and I smelt a strong reek of brandy as he passed me."'Well, my man,' said he. 'What can I do for you?'

　　"The sailor stood looking at him with puckered eyes, and with thesame loose lipped smile upon his face.

　　"'You don't know me?' he asked.

　　"'Why, dear me, it is surely Hudson,' said Mr. Trevor in a tone ofsurprise.

　　"'Hudson it is, sir,' said the seaman. 'Why, it's thirty year andmore since I saw you last. Here you are in your house, and me stillpicking my salt meat out of the harness cask.'

　　"'Tut, you will find that I have not forgotten old times,' criedTrevor, and, walking towards the sailor, he said something in a lowvoice. 'Go into the kitchen ' he continued out loud, 'and you will getfood and drink. I have no doubt that I shall find you a situation.'"'Thank you, sir,' said the seaman, touching his forelock. 'I'm justoff a two-yearer in an eight-knot tramp, short-handed at that, and Iwants a rest. I thought I'd get it either with Mr. Beddoes or withyou.'

　　"'Ah!' cried Mr. Trevor. 'You know where Mr. Beddoes is?'"Bless you, sir, I know where all my old friends are,' said thefellow with a sinister smile, and he slouched off after the maid tothe kitchen. Mr. Trevor mumbled something to us about having beenshipmate with the man when he was going back to the diggings, andthen, leaving us on the lawn, he went indoors. An hour later, whenwe entered the house, we found him stretched dead drunk upon thedining-room sofa. The whole incident left a most ugly impressionupon my mind, and I was not sorry next day to leave Donnithorpe behindme, for I felt that my presence must be a source of embarrassment tomy friend.

　　"All this occurred during the first month of the long vacation. Iwent up to my London rooms, where I spent seven weeks working out afew experiments in organic chemistry. One day, however, when theautumn was far advanced and the vacation drawing to a close, Ireceived a telegram from my friend imploring me to return toDonnithorpe, and saying that he was in great need of my advice andassistance. Of course I dropped everything and set out for the Northonce more.

　　"He met me with the dog-cart at the station, and I saw at a glancethat the last two months had been very trying ones for him. He hadgrown thin and careworn, and had lost the loud, cheery manner forwhich he had been remarkable.

　　"'The governor is dying,' were the first words he said."'Impossible!' I cried. 'What is the matter?'

　　"'Apoplexy. Nervous shock. He's been on the verge all day. I doubtif we shall find him alive.'

　　"I was, as you may think, Watson, horrified at this unexpected news."'What has caused it?' I asked.

　　"'Ah, that is the point. jump in and we can talk it over while wedrive. You remember that fellow who came upon the evening before youleft us?'

　　"'Perfectly.'

　　"'Do you know who it was that we let into the house that day?'"'I have no idea.'

　　"'It was the devil, Holmes,' he cried.

　　"'I stared at him in astonishment.

　　"'Yes, it was the devil himself. We have not had a peaceful hoursince-not one. The governor has never held up his head from thatevening, and now the life has been crushed out of him and his heartbroken, all through this accursed Hudson.'

　　"'What power had he, then?'

　　"'Ah, that is what I would give so much to know. The kindly,charitable good old governor-how could he have fallen into theclutches of such a ruffian! But I am so glad that you have come,Holmes. I trust very much to your judgment and discretion, and Iknow that you will advise me for the best.'

　　"We were dashing along the smooth white country road, with thelong stretch of the Broads in front of us glimmering in the redlight of the setting sun. From a grove upon our left I could alreadysee the high chimneys and the flagstaff which marked the squire'sdwelling.

　　"'My father made the fellow gardener,' said my companion, 'and then,as that did not satisfy him, he was promoted to be butler. The houseseemed to be at his mercy, and he wandered about and did what he chosein it. The maids complained of his drunken habits and his vilelanguage. The dad raised their wages all round to recompense themfor the annoyance. The fellow would take the boat and my father's bestgun and treat himself to little shooting trips. And all this with sucha sneering, leering, insolent face that I would have knocked himdown twenty times over if he had been a man of my own age. I tell you,Holmes, I have had to keep a tight hold upon myself all this time; andnow I am asking myself whether, if I had let myself go a littlemore, I might not have been a wiser man.

　　"'Well, matters went from bad to worse with us, and this animalHudson became more and more intrusive, until at last, on his makingsome insolent reply to my father in my presence one day, I took him bythe shoulders and turned him out of the room. He slunk away with alivid face and two venomous eyes which uttered more threats than histongue could do. I don't know what passed between the poor dad and himafter that, but the dad came to me next day and asked me whether Iwould mind apologizing to Hudson. I refused, as you can imagine, andasked my father how he could allow such a wretch to take suchliberties with himself and his household.

　　"'"Ah, my boy," said he, "it is all very well to talk, but you don'tknow how I am placed. But you shall know, Victor. I'll see that youshall know, come what may. You wouldn't believe harm of your poorold father, would you, lad?" He was very much moved and shut himselfup in the study all day, where I could see through the window thathe was writing busily.

　　"'That evening there came what seemed to me to be a grand release,for Hudson told us that he was going to leave us. He walked into thedining-room as we sat after dinner and announced his intention inthe thick voice of a half-drunken man.

　　"'"I've had enough of Norfolk," said he. "I'll run down to Mr.Beddoes in Hampshire. He'll be as glad to see me as you were, Idaresay."

　　"'"You're not going away in an unkind spirit Hudson, I hope," saidmy father with a tameness which made my blood boil.

　　"'"I've not had my 'poIogy," said he sulkily, glancing in mydirection.

　　"'"Victor, you will acknowledge that you have used this worthyfellow rather roughly," said the dad, turning to me.

　　"'"On the contrary, I think that we have both shown extraordinarypatience towards him," I answered.

　　"'"Oh, you do, do you?" he snarled. "Very good, mate. We'll seeabout that!"

　　"'He slouched out of the room and half an hour afterwards left thehouse, leaving my father in a state of pitiable nervousness. Nightafter night I heard him pacing his room, and it was just as he wasrecovering his confidence that the blow did at last fall.'"'And how?' I asked eagerly.

　　"'In a most extraordinary fashion. A letter arrived for my fatheryesterday evening, bearing the Fordingham postmark. My father read it,clapped both his hands to his head, and began running round the roomin little circles like a man who has been driven out of his senses.When I at last drew him down on to the sofa, his mouth and eyelidswere all puckered on one side, and I saw that he had a stroke. Dr.Fordham came over at once. We put him to bed, but the paralysis hasspread, he has shown no sign of returning consciousness, and I thinkthat we shall hardly find him alive.'

　　"'You horrify me, Trevor!' I cried. 'What then could have been inthis letter to cause so dreadful a result?'

　　"'Nothing. There lies the inexplicable part of it. The message wasabsurd and trivial. Ah, my God, it is as I feared!'

　　"As he spoke we came round the curve of the avenue and saw in thefading light that every blind in the house had been drawn down. Aswe dashed up to the door, my friend's face convulsed with grief, agentleman in black emerged from it.

　　"'When did it happen, doctor?' asked Trevor.

　　"'Almost immediately after you left.'

　　"'Did he recover consciousness?'

　　"'For an instant before the end.'

　　"'Any message for me?'

　　"'Only that the papers were in the back drawer of the Japanesecabinet.'

　　"My friend ascended with the doctor to the chamber of death, while Iremained in the study, turning the whole matter over and over in myhead, and feeling as sombre as ever I had done in my life. What wasthe past of this Trevor, pugilist, traveller, and gold-digger, and howhad he placed himself in the power of this acid-faced seaman? Why,too, should he faint at an allusion to the half-effaced initialsupon his arm and die of fright when he had a letter from Fordingham?Then I remembered that Fordingham was in Hampshire, and that thisMr. Beddoes, whom the seaman had gone to visit and presumably toblackmail, had also been mentioned as living in Hampshire. The letter,then, might either come from Hudson, the seaman, saying that he hadbetrayed the guilty secret which appeared to exist, or it might comefrom Beddoes, warning an old confederate that such a betrayal wasimminent. So far it seemed clear enough. But then how could thisletter be trivial and grotesque, as described by the son? He must havemisread it. If so, it must have been one of those ingenious secretcodes which mean one thing while they seem to mean another. I must seethis letter. If there was a hidden meaning in it, I was confident thatI could pluck it forth. For an hour I sat pondering over it in thegloom, until at last a weeping maid brought in a lamp, and close ather heels came my friend Trevor, pale but composed, with these verypapers which lie upon my knee held in his grasp. He sat downopposite to me, drew the lamp to the edge of the table, and handedme a short note scribbled, as you see, upon a single sheet of graypaper. 'The supply of game for London is going steadily up,' it ran.'Head-keeper Hudson, we believe, has been now told to receive allorders for fly-paper and for preservation of your hen-pheasant'slife.'

　　"I daresay my face looked as bewildered as yours did just now whenfirst I read this message. Then I reread it very carefully. It wasevidently as I had thought, and some secret meaning must lie buried inthis strange combination of words. Or could it be that there was aprearranged significance to such phrases as 'flypaper' and'hen-pheasant'? Such a meaning would be arbitrary and could not bededuced in any way. And yet I was loath to believe that this was thecase, and the presence of the word Hudson seemed to show that thesubject of the message was as I had guessed, and that it was fromBeddoes rather than the sailor. I tried it backward, but thecombination 'life pheasant's hen' was not encouraging. Then I triedalternate words, but neither 'the of for' nor 'supply game London'promised to throw any light upon it.

　　"And then in an instant the key of the riddle was in my hands, and Isaw that every third word, beginning with the first, would give amessage which might well drive old Trevor to despair.

　　"It was short and terse, the warning, as I now read it to mycompanion:

　　"'The game is up. Hudson has told all. Fly for your life.'"Victor Trevor sank his face into his shaking hands. 'It must bethat, I suppose,' said he. 'This is worse than death, for it meansdisgrace as well. But what is the meaning of these "head-keepers"and "hen-pheasants"?'

　　"It means nothing to the message, but it might mean a good deal tous if we had no other means of discovering the sender. You see that hehas begun by writing "The...game...is," and so on. Afterwards hehad, to fulfil the prearranged cipher, to fill in any two words ineach space. He would naturally use the first words which came to hismind, and if there were so many which referred to sport among them,you may be tolerably sure that he is either an ardent shot orinterested in breeding. Do you know anything of this Beddoes?'"'Why, now that you mention it,' said he, 'I remember that my poorfather used to have an invitation from him to shoot over his preservesevery autumn.'

　　"'Then it is undoubtedly from him that the note comes,' said I.'It only remains for us to find out what this secret was which thesailor Hudson seems to have held over the heads of these two wealthyand respected men.'

　　"'Alas, Holmes, I fear that it is one of sin and shame!' cried myfriend. 'But from you I shall have no secrets. Here is the statementwhich was drawn up by my father when he knew that the danger fromHudson had become imminent. I found it in the Japanese cabinet, ashe told the doctor. Take it and read it to me, for I have neitherthe strength nor the courage to do it myself.'

　　"These are the very papers, Watson, which he handed to me, and Iwill read them to you, as I read them in the old study that night tohim. They are endorsed outside, as you see, 'Some particulars of thevoyage of the bark Gloria Scott, from her leaving Falmouth on the8th October, 1855, to her destruction in N. Lat-15' 20', W. Long.25' 14', on Nov. 6th.' It is in the form of a letter, and runs in thisway.

　　"'My dear, dear son, now that approaching disgrace begins todarken the closing years of my life, I can write with all truth andhonesty that it is not the terror of the law, it is not the loss of myposition in the county, nor is it my fall in the eyes of all whohave known me, which cuts me to the heart; but it is the thoughtthat you should come to blush for me-you who love me and who haveseldom, I hope, had reason to do other than respect me. But if theblow falls which is forever hanging over me, then I should wish you toread this, that you may know straight from me how far I have been toblame. On the other hand, if all should go well (which may kind GodAlmighty grant!), then, if by any chance this paper should be stillundestroyed and should fall into your hands, I conjure you, by all youhold sacred, by the memory of your dear mother, and by the lovewhich has been between us, to hurl it into the fire and to nevergive one thought to it again.

　　"'If then your eye goes on to read this line, I know that I shallalready have been exposed and dragged from my home, or, as is morelikely, for you know that my heart is weak, be lying with my tonguesealed forever in death. In either case the time for suppression ispast, and every word which I tell you is the naked truth, and this Iswear as I hope for mercy.

　　"'My name, dear lad, is not Trevor. I was James Armitage in myyounger days, and you can understand now the shock that it was to me afew weeks ago when your college friend addressed me in words whichseemed to imply that he had surprised my secret. As Armitage it wasthat I entered a London banking-house, and as Armitage I was convictedof breaking my country's laws, and was sentenced to transportation. Donot think very harshly of me, laddie. It was a debt of honour, socalled, which I had to pay, and I used money which was not my own todo it, in the certainty that I could replace it before there couldbe any possibility of its being missed. But the most dreadful ill luckpursued me. The money which I had reckoned upon never came to hand,and a premature examination of accounts exposed my deficit. The casemight have been dealt leniently with, but the laws were more harshlyadministered thirty years ago than now, and on my twenty thirdbirthday I found myself chained as a felon with thirty-seven otherconvicts in the 'tween-decks of the bark Gloria Scott, bound forAustralia.

　　"'It was the year '55, when the Crimean War was at its height, andthe old convict ships had been largely used as transports in the BlackSea. The government was compelled, therefore, to use smaller andless suitable vessels for sending out their prisoners. The GloriaScott had been in the Chinese tea-trade, but she was an old-fashioned,heavy-bowed, broad-beamed craft, and the new clippers had cut her out.She was a five-hundred-ton boat; and besides her thirty-eightjail-birds, she carried twenty-six of a crew, eighteen soldiers, acaptain, three mates, a doctor, a chaplain, and four warders. Nearly ahundred souls were in her, all told, when we set sail from Falmouth."'The partitions between the cells of the convicts instead ofbeing of thick oak, as is usual in convict-ships, were quite thinand frail. The man next to me, upon the aft side, was one whom I hadparticularly noticed when we were led down the quay. He was a youngman with a clear, hairless face, a long, thin nose, and rathernut-cracker jaws. He carried his head very jauntily in the air, hada swaggering style of walking, and was, above all else, remarkable forhis extraordinary height. I don't think any of our heads would havecome up to his shoulder, and I am sure that he could not have measuredless than six and a half feet. It was strange among so many sad andweary faces to see one which was full of energy and resolution. Thesight of it was to me like a fire in a snowstorm. I was glad, then, tofind that he was my neighbour, and gladder still when, in the deadof the night, I heard a whisper close to my ear and found that hehad managed to cut an opening in the board which separated us."'"Hullo, chummy!" said he, "what's your name, and what are youhere for?"

　　"'I answered him, and asked in turn who I was talking with."'"I'm Jack Prendergast," said he, and by God! you'll learn to blessmy name before you've done with me."

　　"'I remembered hearing of his case, for it was one which had made animmense sensation throughout the country some time before my ownarrest. He was a man of good family and of great ability, but ofincurably vicious habits, who had by an ingenious system of fraudobtained huge sums of money from the leading London merchants."'"Ha, ha! You remember my case!" said he proudly.

　　"'"Very well, indeed."

　　"'"Then maybe you remember something queer about it?"

　　"'"What was that, then?"

　　"'"I'd had nearly a quarter of a million, hadn't I?"

　　"'"So it was said."

　　"'"But none was recovered,

　　"'"No."

　　"'"Well, where d'ye suppose the balance is?" he asked.

　　"'"I have no idea," said I.

　　"'"Right between my finger and thumb," he cried. "By God! I've gotmore pounds to my name than you've hairs on your head. And if you'vemoney, my son, and know how to handle it and spread it, you can doanything. Now, you don't think it likely that a man who could doanything is going to wear his breeches out sitting in the stinkinghold of a rat-gutted, beetle-ridden, mouldy old coffin of a Chin Chinacoaster. No, sir, such a man will look after himself and will lookafter his chums. You may lay to that! You hold on to him, and youmay kiss the Book that he'll haul you through."

　　"'That was his style of talk, and at first I thought it meantnothing, but after a while, when he had tested me and sworn me in withall possible solemnity, he let me understand that there really was aplot to gain command of the vessel. A dozen of the prisoners hadhatched it before they came aboard, Prendergast was the leader, andhis money was the motive power.

　　"'"I'd a partner," said he, "a rare good man, as true as a stockto a barrel. He's got the dibbs, he has, and where do you think heis at this moment? Why, he's the chaplain of this ship-the chaplain,no less? He came aboard with a black coat, and his papers right, andmoney enough in his box to buy the thing right up from keel tomain-truck. The crew are his, body and soul. He could buy 'em at somuch a gross with a cash discount, and he did it before ever theysigned on. He's got two of the warders and Mereer, the second mate,and he'd get the captain himself, if he thought him worth it.""'"What are we to do, then?" I asked.

　　"'"What do you think?" said he. "We'll make the coats of some ofthese soldiers redder than ever the tailor did."

　　"'"But they are armed," said I.

　　"'"And so shall we be, my boy. There's a brace of pistols forevery mothers son of us; and if we can't carry this ship, with thecrew at our back, it's time we were all sent to a young misses'boarding-school. You speak to your mate upon the left to-night, andsee if he is to be trusted."

　　"'"I did so and found my other neighbour to be a young fellow inmuch the same position as myself, whose crime had been forgery. Hisname was Evans, but he afterwards changed it, like myself, and he isnow a rich and prosperous man in the south of England. He was readyenough to join the conspiracy, as the only means of savingourselves, and before we had crossed the bay there were only two ofthe prisoners who were not in the secret. One of these was of weakmind, and we did not dare to trust him, and the other was sufferingfrom jaundice and could not be of any use to us.

　　"'From the beginning there was really nothing to prevent us fromtaking possession of the ship. The crew were a set of ruffians,specially picked for the job. The sham chaplain came into our cells toexhort us, carrying a black bag, supposed to be full of tracts, and sooften did he come that by the third day we had each stowed away at thefoot of our beds a file, a brace of pistols, a pound of powder, andtwenty slugs. Two of the warders were agents of Prendergast, and thesecond mate was his right-hand man. The captain, the two mates, twowarders, Lieutenant Martin, his eighteen soldiers, and the doctor wereall that we had against us. Yet, safe as it was, we determined toneglect no precaution, and to make our attack suddenly by night. Itcame, however, more quickly than we expected, and in this way."'One evening, about the third week after our start, the doctorhad come down to see one of the prisoners who was ill, and, puttinghis hand down on the bottom of his bunk, he felt the outline of thepistols. If he had been silent he might have blown the whole thing,but he was a nervous little chap, so he gave a cry of surprise andturned so pale that the man knew what was up in an instant andseized him. He was gagged before he could give the alarm and tied downupon the bed. He had unlocked the door that led to the deck, and wewere through it in a rush. The two sentries were shot down, and so wasa corporal who came running to see what was the matter. There were twomore soldiers at the door of the stateroom, and their muskets seemednot to be loaded, for they never fired upon us, and they were shotwhile trying to fix their bayonets. Then we rushed on into thecaptain's cabin, but as we pushed open the door there was an explosionfrom within, and there he lay with his brains smeared over the chartof the Atlantic which was pinned upon the table, while the chaplainstood with a smoking pistol in his hand at his elbow. The two mateshad both been seized by the crew, and the whole business seemed tobe settled.

　　"'The stateroom was next the cabin, and we flocked in there andflopped down on the settees, all speaking together, for we were justmad with the feeling that we were free once more. There were lockersall round, and Wilson, the sham chaplain, knocked one of them in,and pulled out a dozen of brown sherry. We cracked off the necks ofthe bottles, poured the stuff out into tumblers, and were just tossingthem off when in an instant without warning there came the roar ofmuskets in our ears, and the saloon was so full of smoke that we couldnot see across the table. When it cleared again the place was ashambles. Wilson and eight others were wriggling on the top of eachother on the floor, and the blood and the brown sherry on that tableturn me sick now when I think of it. We were so cowed by the sightthat I think we should have given the job up if it had not been forPrendergast. He bellowed like a bull and rushed for the door withall that were left alive at his heels. Out we ran, and there on thepoop were the lieutenant and ten of his men. The swing skylights abovethe saloon table had been a bit open, and they had fired on us throughthe slit. We got on them before they could load, and they stood toit like men; but we had the upper hand of them, and in five minutes itwas all over. My God! was there ever a slaughter-house like that ship!Prendergast was like a raging devil, and he picked the soldiers upas if they had been children and threw them overboard alive or dead.There was one sergeant that was horribly wounded and yet kept onswimming for a surprising time until someone in mercy blew out hisbrains. When the fighting was over there was no one left of ourenemies except just the warders, the mates, and,the doctor."'It was over them that the great quarrel arose. There were manyof us who were glad enough to win back our freedom, and yet who had nowish to have murder on our souls. It was one thing to knock thesoldiers over with their muskets in their hands, and it was another tostand by while men were being killed in cold blood. Eight of us,five convicts and three sailors, said that we would not see it done.But there was no moving Prendergast and those who were with him. Ouronly chance of safety lay in making a clean job of it, said he, and hewould not leave a tongue with power to wag in a witness-box. It nearlycame to our sharing the fate of the prisoners, but at last he saidthat if we wished we might take a boat and go. We jumped at the offer,for we were already sick of these bloodthirsty doings, and we saw thatthere would be worse before it was done. We were given a suit ofsailor togs each, a barrel of water, two casks, one of junk and one ofbiscuits, and a compass. Prendergast threw us over a chart, told usthat we were shipwrecked mariners whose ship had foundered in Lat. 15'and Long. 25' west, and then cut the painter and let us go."'And now I come to the most surprising part of my story, my dearson. The seamen had hauled the fore-yard aback during the rising,but now as we left them they brought it square again, and as there wasa light wind from the north and east the bark began to draw slowlyaway from us. Our boat lay, rising and falling, upon the long,smooth rollers, and Evans and I, who were the most educated of theparty, were sitting in the sheets working out our position andplanning what coast we should make for. It was a nice question, forthe Cape Verdes were about five hundred miles to the north of us,and the African coast about seven hundred to the east. On the whole,as the wind was coming round to the north, we thought that SierraLeone might be best and turned our head in that direction, the barkbeing at that time nearly hull down on our starboard quarter. Suddenlyas we looked at her we saw a dense black cloud of smoke shoot upfrom her, which hung like a monstrous tree upon the sky-line. A fewseconds later a roar like thunder burst upon our ears, and as thesmoke thinned away there was no sign left of the Gloria Scott. In aninstant we swept the boat's head round again and pulled with all ourstrength for the place where the haze still trailing over the watermarked the scene of this catastrophe.

　　"'It was a long hour before we reached it, and at first we fearedthat we had come too late to save anyone. A splintered boat and anumber of crates and fragments of spars rising and falling on thewaves showed us where the vessel had foundered; but there was nosign of life, and we had turned away in despair, when we heard a cryfor help and saw at some distance a piece of wreckage with a man lyingstretched across it. When we pulled him aboard the boat he proved tobe a young seaman of the name of Hudson, who was so burned andexhausted that he could give us no account of what had happeneduntil the following morning.

　　"It seemed that after we had left, Prendergast and his gang hadproceeded to put to death the five remaining prisoners. The twowarders had been shot and thrown overboard, and so also had thethird mate. Prendergast then descended into the 'tween-decks andwith his own hands cut the throat of the unfortunate surgeon. Thereonly remained the first mate, who was a bold and active man. When hesaw the convict approaching him with the bloody knife in his hand hekicked off his bonds, which he had somehow contrived to loosen, andrushing down the deck he plunged into the after-hold. A dozenconvicts, who descended with their pistols in search of him, found himwith a match-box in his hand seated beside an open powder-barrel,which was one of the hundred carried on board, and swearing that hewould blow all hands up if he were in any way molested. An instantlater the explosion occurred, though Hudson thought it was caused bythe misdirected bullet of one of the convicts rather than the mate'smatch. Be the cause what it may, it was the end of the Gloria Scottand of the rabble who held command of her.

　　"'Such, in a few words, my dear boy, is the history of this terriblebusiness in which I was involved. Next day we were picked up by thebrig Hotspur, bound for Australia, whose captain found no difficultyin believing that we were the survivors of a passenger ship whichhad foundered. The transport ship Gloria Scott was set down by theAdmiralty as being lost at sea, and no word has ever leaked out asto her true fate. After an excellent voyage the Hotspur landed us atSydney, where Evans and I changed our names and made our way to thediggings, where, among the crowds who were gathered from allnations, we had no difficulty in losing our former identities. Therest I need not relate. We prospered, we travelled, we came back asrich colonials to England, and we bought country estates. For morethan twenty years we have led peaceful and useful lives, and wehoped that our past was forever buried. Imagine, then, my feelingswhen in the seaman who came to us I recognized instantly the man whohad been picked off the wreck. He had tracked us down somehow andhad set himself to live upon our fears. You will understand now how itwas that I strove to keep the peace with him, and you will in somemeasure sympathize with me in the fears which fill me, now that he hasgone from me to his other victim with threats upon his tongue.'"Underneath is written in a hand so shaky as to be hardly legible,'Beddoes writes in cipher to say H. has told all. Sweet Lord, havemercy on our souls!'

　　"That was the narrative which I read that night to young Trevor, andI think, Watson, that under the circumstances it was a dramatic one.The good fellow was heart-broken at it, and went out to the Teraitea Planting, where I hear that he is doing well. As to the sailor andBeddoes, neither of them was ever heard of again after that day onwhich the letter of warning was written. They both disappeared utterlyand completely. No complaint had been lodged with the police, sothat Beddoes had mistaken a threat for a deed. Hudson had been seenlurking about, and it was believed by the police that he had done awaywith Beddoes and had fled. For myself I believe that the truth wasexactly the opposite. I think that it is most probable that Beddoes,pushed to desperation and believing himself to have been alreadybetrayed, had revenged himself upon Hudson, and had fled from thecountry with as much money as he could lay his hands on. Those are thefacts of the case, Doctor, and if they are of any use to yourcollection, I am sure that they are very heartily at your service."THE END

　　.

　　1893

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE GREEK INTERPRETER

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　During my long and intimate acquaintance with Mr. Sherlock HolmesI had never heard him refer to his relations, and hardly ever to hisown early life. This reticence upon his part had increased thesomewhat inhuman effect which he produced upon me, until sometimes Ifound myself regarding him as an isolated phenomenon, a brainwithout a heart, as deficient in human sympathy as he was preeminentin intelligence. His aversion to women and his disinclination toform new friendships were both typical of his unemotional character,but not more so than his complete suppression of every reference tohis own people. I had come to believe that he was an orphan with norelatives living; but one day, to my very great surprise, he beganto talk to me about his brother.

　　It was after tea on a summer evening, and the conversation, whichhad roamed in a desultory, spasmodic fashion from golf clubs to thecauses of the change in the obliquity of the ecliptic, came round atlast to the question of atavism and hereditary aptitudes. The pointunder discussion was, how far any singular gift in an individual wasdue to his ancestry and how far to his own early training."In your own case," said I, "from all that you have told me, itseems obvious that your faculty of observation and your peculiarfacility for deduction are due to your own systematic training.""To some extent" he answered thoughtfully. "My ancestors werecountry squires, who appear to have led much the same life as isnatural to their class. But, none the less, my turn that way is inmy veins, and may have come with my grandmother, who was the sister ofVernet, the French artist. Art in the blood is liable to take thestrangest forms."

　　"But how do you know that it is hereditary?"

　　"Because my brother Mycroft possesses it in a larger degree than Ido."

　　This was news to me indeed. If there were another man with suchsingular powers in England, how was it that neither police norpublic had heard of him? I put the question, with a hint that it wasmy companion's modesty which made him acknowledge his brother as hissuperior. Holmes laughed at my suggestion.

　　"My dear Watson," said he, "I cannot agree with those who rankmodesty among the virtues. To the logician all things should be seenexactly as they are, and to underestimate one's self is as much adeparture from truth as to exaggerate one's own powers. When I say,therefore, that Mycroft has better powers of observation than I, youmay take it that I am speaking the exact and literal truth.""Is he your junior?"

　　"Seven years my senior."

　　"How comes it that he is unknown?"

　　"Oh, he is very well known in his own circle."

　　"Where, then?"

　　Well, in the Diogenes Club, for example."

　　I had never heard of the institution, and my face must haveproclaimed as much, for Sherlock Holmes pulled out his watch."The Diogenes Club is the queerest club in London, and Mycroft oneof the queerest men. He's always there from quarter to five totwenty to eight. It's six now, so if you care for a stroll thisbeautiful evening I shall be very happy to introduce you to twocuriosities."

　　Five minutes later we were in the street walking towards Regent'sCircus.

　　"You wonder," said my companion, "why it is that Mycroft does notuse his powers for detective work. He is incapable of it.""But I thought you said-"

　　"I said that he was my superior in observation and deduction. If theart of the detective began and ended in reasoning from an armchair, mybrother would be the greatest criminal agent that ever lived. But hehas no ambition and no energy. He will not even go out of his way toverify his own solutions, and would rather be considered wrong thantake the trouble to prove himself right. Again and again I havetaken a problem to him, and have received an explanation which hasafterwards proved to be the correct one. And yet he was absolutelyincapable of working out the practical points which must be goneinto before a case could be laid before a judge or jury.""It is not his profession, then?"

　　"By no means. What is to me a means of livelihood is to him themerest hobby of a dilettante. He has an extraordinary faculty forfigures, and audits the books in some of the government departments.Mycroft lodges in Pall Mall, and he walks round the corner intoWhitehall every morning and back every evening. From year's end toyear's end he takes no other exercise, and is seen nowhere else,except only in the Diogenes Club, which is just opposite his rooms.""I cannot recall the name."

　　"Very likely not. There are many men in London, you know, who,some from shyness, some from misanthropy, have no wish for the companyof their fellows. Yet they are not averse to comfortable chairs andthe latest periodicals. It is for the convenience of these that theDiogenes Club was started, and it now contains the most unsociable andunclubable men in town. No member is permitted to take the leastnotice of any other one. Save in the Stranger's Room, no talking is,under any circumstances, allowed, and three offences, if brought tothe notice of the committee, render the talker liable to expulsion. Mybrother was one of the founders, and I have myself found it a verysoothing atmosphere."

　　We had reached Pall Mall as we talked, and were walking down it fromthe St. James's end. Sherlock Holmes stopped at a door some littledistance from the Carlton, and, cautioning me not to speak, he led theway into the hall. Through the glass panelling I caught a glimpse of alarge and luxurious room, in which a considerable number of men weresitting about and reading papers, each in his own little nook.Holmes showed me into a small chamber which looked out into Pall Mall,and then, leaving me for a minute, he came back with a companionwhom I knew could only be his brother.

　　Mycroft Holmes was a much larger and stouter man than Sherlock.His body was absolutely corpulent, but his face, though massive, hadpreserved something of the sharpness of expression which was soremarkable in that of his brother. His eyes, which were of apeculiarly light, watery gray, seemed to always retain thatfar-away, introspective look which I had only observed in Sherlock'swhen he was exerting his full powers.

　　"I am glad to meet you, sir," said he, putting out a broad, fat handlike the flipper of a seal. "I hear of Sherlock everywhere since youbecame his chronicler. By the way, Sherlock, I expected to see youround last week to consult me over that Manor House case. I thoughtyou might be a little out of your depth."

　　"No, I solved it," said my friend, smiling.

　　"It was Adams, of course."

　　"Yes, it was Adams."

　　"I was sure of it from the first." The two sat down together inthe bow-window of the club. To anyone who wishes to study mankind thisis the spot," said Mycroft. "Look at the magnificent types! Look atthese two men who are coming towards us, for example."

　　"The billiard-marker and the other?"

　　"Precisely. What do you make of the other?"

　　The two men had stopped opposite the window. Some chalk marks overthe waistcoat pocket were the only signs of billiards which I couldsee in one of them. The other was a very small, dark fellow, withhis hat pushed back and several packages under his arm."An old soldier, I perceive," said Sherlock.

　　"And very recently discharged," remarked the brother.

　　"Served in India, I see."

　　"And a non-commissioned officer."

　　"Royal Artillery, I fancy," said Sherlock.

　　"And a widower."

　　"But with a child."

　　"Children, my dear boy, children."

　　"Come," said I, laughing, "this is a little too much."

　　"Surely," answered Holmes, "it is not hard to say that a man withthat bearing, expression of authority, and sun-baked skin, is asoldier, is more than a private, and is not long from India.""That he has not left the service long is shown by his still wearinghis ammunition boots, as they are called," observed Mycroft."He had not the cavalry stride, yet he wore his hat on one side,as is shown by the lighter skin on that side of his brow. His weightis against his being a sapper. He is in the artillery.""Then, of course, his complete mourning shows that he has lostsomeone very dear. The fact that he is doing his own shopping looks asthough it were his wife. He has been buying things for children, youperceive. There is a rattle, which shows that one of them is veryyoung. The wife probably died in childbed. The fact that he has apicture-book under his arm shows that there is another child to bethought of."

　　I began to understand what my friend meant when he said that hisbrother possessed even keener faculties than he did himself. Heglanced across at me and smiled. Mycroft took snuff from atortoise-shell box and brushed away the wandering grains from his coatfront with a large, red silk handkerchief.

　　"By the way, Sherlock," said he, "I have had something quite afteryour own heart-a most singular problem-submitted to my judgment. Ireally had not the energy to follow it up save in a very incompletefashion, but it gave me a basis for some pleasing speculations. If youwould care to hear the facts-"

　　"My dear Mycroft, I should be delighted."

　　The brother scribbled a note upon a leaf of his pocket-book, and,ringing the bell, he handed it to the waiter.

　　"I have asked Mr. Melas to step across," said he. "He lodges onthe floor above me, and I have some slight acquaintance with him,which led him to come to me in his perplexity. Mr. Melas is a Greek byextraction, as I understand, and he is a remarkable linguist. He earnshis living partly as interpreter in the law courts and partly byacting as guide to any wealthy Orientals who may visit theNorthumberland Avenue hotels. I think I will leave him to tell hisvery remarkable experience in his own fashion."

　　A few minutes later we were joined by a short, stout man whose oliveface and coal black hair proclaimed his Southern origin, though hisspeech was that of an educated Englishman. He shook hands eagerly withSherlock Holmes, and his dark eyes sparkled with pleasure when heunderstood that the specialist was anxious to hear his story."I do not believe that the police credit me-on my word, I do not,"said he in a wailing voice. "Just because they have never heard ofit before, they think that such a thing cannot be. But I know that Ishall never be easy in my mind until I know what has become of my poorman with the sticking-plaster upon his face."

　　"I am all attention," said Sherlock Holmes.

　　"This is Wednesday evening," said Mr. Melas. "Well, then, it wasMonday night-only two days ago, you understand-that all this happened.I am an interpreter, as perhaps my neighbour there has told you. Iinterpret all languages-or nearly all-but as I am a Greek by birth andwith a Grecian name, it is with that particular tongue that I amprincipally associated. For many years I have been the chief Greekinterpreter in London, and my name is very well known in the hotels."It happens not unfrequently that I am sent for at strange hoursby foreigners who get into difficulties, or by travellers who arrivelate and wish my services. I was not surprised, therefore, on Mondaynight when a Mr. Latimer, a very fashionably dressed young man, cameup to my rooms and asked me to accompany him in a cab which waswaiting at the door. A Greek friend had come to see him upon business,he said, and as he could speak nothing but his own tongue, theservices of an interpreter were indispensable. He gave me tounderstand that his house was some little distance off, in Kensington,and he seemed to be in a great hurry, bustling me rapidly into the cabwhen we had descended to the street.

　　"I say into the cab, but I soon became doubtful as to whether it wasnot a carriage in which I found myself. It was certainly more roomythan the ordinary four-wheeled disgrace to London, and the fittings,though frayed, were of rich quality. Mr. Latimer seated himselfopposite to me and we started off through Charing Cross and up theShaftesbury Avenue. We had come out upon Oxford Street and I hadventured some remark as to this being a roundabout way toKensington, when my words were arrested by the extraordinary conductof my companion.

　　"He began by drawing a most formidable-looking bludgeon loadedwith lead from his pocket, and switching it backward and forwardseveral times, as if to test its weight and strength. Then he placedit without a word upon the seat beside him. Having done this, hedrew up the windows on each side, and I found to my astonishmentthat they were covered with paper so as to prevent my seeing throughthem.

　　"'I am sorry to cut off your view, Mr. Melas,' said he. 'The fact isthat I have no intention that you should see what the place is towhich we are driving. It might possibly be inconvenient to me if youcould find your way there again.'

　　"As you can imagine, I was utterly taken aback by such an address.My companion was a powerful, broad-shouldered young fellow, and, apartfrom the weapon, I should not have had the slightest chance in astruggle with him.

　　"'This is very extraordinary conduct, Mr. Latimer,' I stammered.'You must be aware that what you are doing is quite illegal.'"'It is somewhat of a liberty, no doubt,' said he, 'but we'll makeit up to you. I must warn you, however, Mr. Melas, that if at any timeto-night you attempt to raise an alarm or do anything which is againstmy interest, you will find it a very serious thing. I beg you toremember that no one knows where you are, and that, whether you are inthis carriage or in my house, you are equally in my power.'"His words were quiet but he had a rasping way of saying them, whichwas very menacing. I sat in silence wondering what on earth could behis reason for kidnapping me in this extraordinary fashion. Whateverit might be, it was perfectly clear that there was no possible usein my resisting, and that I could only wait to see what might befall."For nearly two hours we drove without my having the least clue asto where we were going. Sometimes the rattle of the stones told of apaved causeway, and at others our smooth, silent course suggestedasphalt; but, save by this variation in sound, there was nothing atall which could in the remotest way help me to form a guess as towhere we were. The paper over each window was impenetrable to light,and a blue curtain was drawn across the glasswork in front. It was aquarter past seven when we left Pall Mall, and my watch showed me thatit was ten minutes to nine when we at last came to a standstill. Mycompanion let down the window, and I caught a glimpse of a low, archeddoorway with a lamp burning above it. As I was hurried from thecarriage it swung open, and I found myself inside the house, with avague impression of a lawn and trees on each side of me as Ientered. Whether these were private grounds, however, or bona-fidecountry was more than I could possibly venture to say.

　　"There was a coloured gaslamp inside which was turned so low thatI could see little save that the hall was of some size and hung withpictures. In the dim light I could make out that the person who hadopened the door was a small, mean-looking, middle-aged man withrounded shoulders. As he turned towards us the glint of the lightshowed me that he was wearing glasses.

　　"'Is this Mr. Melas, Harold?' said he.

　　"'Yes.'

　　"'Well done, well done! No ill-will, Mr. Melas, I hope, but we couldnot get on without you. If you deal fair with us you'll not regret it,but if you try any tricks, God help you!' He spoke in a nervous, jerkyfashion, and with little giggling laughs in between, but somehow heimpressed me with fear more than the other.

　　"'What do you want with me?' I asked.

　　"'Only to ask a few questions of a Greek gentleman who is visitingus, and to let us have the answers. But say no more than you aretold to say, or-' here came the nervous giggle again-'you had betternever have been born.'

　　"As he spoke he opened a door and showed the way into a roomwhich appeared to be very richly furnished, but again the only lightwas afforded by a single lamp half-turned down. The chamber wascertainly large, and the way in which my feet sank into the carpetas I stepped across it told me of its richness. I caught glimpses ofvelvet chairs, a high white marble mantelpiece, and what seemed tobe a suit of Japanese armour at one side of it. There was a chair justunder the lamp, and the elderly man motioned that I should sit init. The younger had left us, but he suddenly returned throughanother door, leading with him a gentleman clad in some sort ofloose dressing-gown who moved slowly towards us. As he came into thecircle of dim light which enabled me to see him more clearly I wasthrilled with horror at his appearance. He was deadly pale andterribly emaciated, with the protruding, brilliant eyes of a man whosespirit was greater than his strength. But what shocked me more thanany signs of physical weakness was that his face was grotesquelycriss-crossed with sticking-plaster and that one large pad of it wasfastened over his mouth.

　　"'Have you the slate, Harold?' cried the older man, as thisstrange being fell rather than sat down into a chair. 'Are his handsloose? Now, then, give him the pencil. You are to ask the questions,Mr. Melas, and he will write the answers. Ask him first of all whetherhe is prepared to sign the papers?'

　　"The man's eyes flashed fire.

　　"'Never!' he wrote in Greek upon the slate.

　　"'On no conditions?' I asked at the bidding of our tyrant."'Only if I see her married in my presence by a Greek priest whomI know.'

　　"The man giggled in his venomous way.

　　"'You know what awaits you, then?'

　　"'I care nothing for myself.'

　　"These are samples of the questions and answers which made up ourstrange half-spoken, half-written conversation. Again and again Ihad to ask him whether he would give in and sign the documents.Again and again I had the same indignant reply. But soon a happythought came to me. I took to adding on little sentences of my ownto each question, innocent ones at first, to test whether either ofour companions knew anything of the matter, and then, as I foundthat they showed no sign I played a more dangerous game. Ourconversation ran something like this:

　　"'You can do no good by this obstinacy. Who are you?'

　　"'I care not. I am a stranger in London.'

　　"'Your fate will be on your own head. How long have you been here?'"'Let it be so. Three weeks.'

　　"'The property can never be yours. What ails you?'

　　"'It shall not go to villains. They are.'

　　"'You shall go free if you sign. What house is this?'

　　"'I will never sign. I do not know.'

　　"'You are not doing her any service. What is your name?'"'Let me hear her say so. Kratides.'

　　"'You shall see her if you sign. Where are you from?'

　　"'Then I shall never see her. Athens.'

　　"Another five minutes, Mr. Holmes, and I should have wormed outthe whole story under their very noses. My very next question mighthave cleared the matter up, but at that instant the door opened anda woman stepped into the room. I could not see her clearly enough toknow more than that she was tall and graceful with black hair, andclad in some sort of loose white gown.

　　"'Harold,' said she, speaking English with a broken accent. 'I couldnot stay away longer. It is so lonely up there with only-Oh, my God,it is Paul!'

　　"These last words were in Greek, and at the same instant the manwith a convulsive effort tore the plaster from his lips, and screamingout 'Sophy! Sophy!' rushed into the woman's arms. Their embrace wasbut for an instant, however, for the younger man seized the womanand pushed her out of the room, while the elder easily overpowered hisemaciated victim and dragged him away through the other door. For amoment I was left alone in the room, and I sprang to my feet with somevague idea that I might in some way get a clue to what this housewas in which I found myself. Fortunately, however, I took no steps,for looking up I saw that the older man was standing in the doorway,with his eyes fixed upon me.

　　"'That will do, Mr. Melas,' said he. 'You perceive that we havetaken you into our confidence over some very private business. Weshould not have troubled you, only that our friend who speaks Greekand who began these negotiations has been forced to return to theEast. It was quite necessary for us to find someone to take his place,and we were fortunate in hearing of your powers.'

　　"I bowed.

　　"'There are five sovereigns here,' said he, walking up to me, 'whichwill, I hope, be a sufficient fee. But remember,' he added, tapping melightly on the chest and giggling, 'if you speak to a human soul aboutthis-one human soul, mind-well, may God have mercy upon your soul!'"I cannot tell you the loathing and horror with which thisinsignificant-looking man inspired me. I could see him better now asthe lamp-light shone upon him. His features were peaky and sallow, andhis little pointed beard was thready and ill-nourished. He pushedhis face forward as he spoke and his lips and eyelids were continuallytwitching like a man with St. Vitus's dance. I could not help thinkingthat his strange, catchy little laugh was also a symptom of somenervous malady. The terror of his face lay in his eyes, however, steelgray, and glistening coldly with a malignant inexorable cruelty intheir depths.

　　"'We shall know if you speak of this,' said he. 'We have our ownmeans of information. Now you will find the carriage waiting, and myfriend will see you on your way.'

　　"I was hurried through the hall and into the vehicle, againobtaining that momentary glimpse of trees and a garden. Mr. Latimerfollowed closely at my heels and took his place opposite to me withouta word. In silence we again drove for an interminable distance withthe windows raised, until at last, just after midnight, the carriagepulled up.

　　"'You will get down here, Mr. Melas,' said my companion. 'I am sorryto leave you so far from your house, but there is no alternative.Any attempt upon your part to follow the carriage can only end ininjury to yourself.'

　　"He opened the door as he spoke, and I had hardly time to spring outwhen the coachman lashed the horse and the carriage rattled away. Ilooked around me in astonishment. I was on some sort of a heathycommon mottled over with dark clumps of furze-bushes. Far awaystretched a line of houses, with a light here and there in the upperwindows. On the other side I saw the red signal-lamps of a railway."The carriage which had brought me was already out of sight. I stoodgazing round and wondering where on earth I might be, when I sawsomeone coming towards me in the darkness. As he came up to me Imade out that he was a railway porter.

　　"'Can you tell me what place this is?' I asked.

　　"'Wandsworth Common,' said he.

　　"'Can I get a train into town?'

　　"'If you walk on a mile or so to Clapham Junction,' said he, 'you'lljust be in time for the last to Victoria.'

　　"So that was the end of my adventure, Mr. Holmes. I do not knowwhere I was, nor whom I spoke with, nor anything save what I have toldyou. But I know that there is foul play going on, and I want to helpthat unhappy man if I can. I told the whole story to Mr. MycroftHolmes next morning, and subsequently to the police."

　　We all sat in silence for some little time after listening to thisextraordinary narrative. Then Sherlock looked across at his brother."Any steps?" he asked.

　　Mycroft picked up the Daily News, which was lying on the side-table."Anybody supplying any information as to the whereabouts of aGreek gentleman named Paul Kratides, from Athens, who is unable tospeak English, will be rewarded. A similar reward paid to anyonegiving information about a Greek lady whose first name is Sophy. X2473'

　　"That was in all the dailies. No answer."

　　"How about the Greek legation?"

　　"I have inquired. They know nothing."

　　"A wire to the head of the Athens police, then?"

　　"Sherlock has all the energy of the family," said Mycroft, turning tome. "Well, you take the case up by all means and let me know if you doany good."

　　"Certainly," answered my friend, rising from his chair. "I'll letyou know, and Mr. Melas also. In the meantime, Mr. Melas, I shouldcertainly be on my guard if I were you, for of course they must knowthrough these advertisements that you have betrayed them."As we walked home together, Holmes stopped at a telegraph office andsent of several wires.

　　"You see, Watson," he remarked, "our evening has been by no meanswasted. Some of my most interesting cases have come to me in thisway through Mycroft. The problem which we have just listened to,although it can admit of but one explanation, has still somedistinguishing features."

　　"You have hopes of solving it?"

　　"Well, knowing as much as we do, it will be singular indeed if wefail to discover the rest. You must yourself have formed some theorywhich will explain the facts to which we have listened.""In a vague way, yes."

　　"What was your idea, then?"

　　"It seemed to me to be obvious that this Greek girl had been carriedoff by the young Englishman named Harold Latimer."

　　"Carried off from where?"

　　"Athens, perhaps."

　　Sherlock Holmes shook his head. "This young man could not talk aword of Greek. The lady could talk English fairly well. Inference-thatshe had been in England some little time, but he had not been inGreece."

　　"Well, then, we will presume that she had once come on a visit toEngland, and that this Harold had persuaded her to fly with him.""That is more probable."

　　"Then the brother-for that, I fancy, must be the

　　relationship-comes over from Greece to interfere. He imprudentlyputs himself into the power of the young man and his olderassociate. They seize him and use violence towards him in order tomake him sign some papers to make over the girl's fortune-of whichhe may be trustee-to them. This he refuses to do. In order tonegotiate with him they have to get an interpreter, and they pitchupon this Mr. Melas, having used some other one before. The girl isnot told of the arrival of her brother and finds it out by themerest accident.

　　"Excellent, Watson!" cried Holmes. "I really fancy that you arenot far from the truth. You see that we hold all the cards, and wehave only to fear some sudden act of violence on their part. If theygive us time we must have them."

　　"But how can we find where this house lies?"

　　"Well, if our conjecture is correct and the girl's name is or wasSophy Kratides, we should have no difficulty in tracing her. That mustbe our main hope, for the brother is, of course, a completestranger. It is clear that some time has elapsed since this Haroldestablished these relations with the girl-some weeks, at anyrate-since the brother in Greece has had time to hear of it and comeacross. If they have been living in the same place during this time,it is probable that we shall have some answer to Mycroft'sadvertisement."

　　We had reached our house in Baker Street while we had beentalking. Holmes ascended the stair first, and as he opened the door ofour room he gave a start of surprise. Looking over his shoulder, I wasequally astonished. His brother Mycroft was sitting smoking in thearmchair.

　　"Come in, Sherlock! Come in, sir," said he blandly, smiling at oursurprised faces. "You don't expect such energy from me, do you,Sherlock? But somehow this can attracts me."

　　"How did you get here?"

　　"I passed you in a hansom."

　　"There has been some new development?"

　　"I had an answer to my advertisement."

　　"Ah!"

　　"Yes, it came within a few minutes of your leaving."

　　"And to what effect?"

　　Mycroft Holmes took out a sheet of paper.

　　"Here it is," said he, "Written with a J pen on royal cream paper bya middle-aged man with a weak constitution.

　　"SIR [he says]:

　　"In answer to your advertisement of to-day's date, I beg to informyou that I know the young lady in question very well. If you shouldcare to call upon me I could give you some particulars as to herpainful history. She is living at present at The Myrtles, Beckenham."Yours faithfully,

　　"J. DAVENPORT.

　　"He writes from Lower Brixton," said Mycroft Holmes. "Do you notthink that we might drive to him now, Sherlock, and learn theseparticulars?"

　　"My dear Mycroft, the brother's life is more valuable than thesister's story. I think we should call at Scotland Yard forInspector Gregson and go straight out to Beckenham. We know that a manis being done to death, and every hour may be vital."

　　"Better pick up Mr. Melas on our way," I suggested. "We may needan interpreter."

　　"Excellent," said Sherlock Holmes. "Send the boy for a four-wheeler,and we shall be off at once." He opened the table-drawer as hespoke, and I noticed that he slipped his revolver into his pocket."Yes," said he in answer to my glance, "I should say, from what wehave heard, that we are dealing with a particularly dangerous gang."It was almost dark before we found ourselves in Pall Mall, at therooms of Mr. Melas. A gentleman had just called for him, and he wasgone.

　　"Can you tell me where?" asked Mycroft Holmes.

　　"I don't know, sir," answered the woman who had opened the door,"I only know that he drove away with the gentleman in a carriage.""Did the gentleman give a name?"

　　"No, sir."

　　"He wasn't a tall, handsome. dark young man?"

　　"Oh, no, sir. He was a little gentleman, with glasses, thin in theface, but very pleasant in his ways, for he was laughing all thetime that he was talking."

　　"Come along!" cried Sherlock Holmes abruptly. "This growsserious," he observed as we drove to Scotland Yard. "These men havegot hold of Melas again. He is a man of no physical courage, as theyare well aware from their experience the other night. This villain wasable to terrorize him the instant that he got into his presence. Nodoubt they want his professional services, but, having used him,they may be inclined to punish him for what they will regard as histreachery."

　　Our hope was that, by taking train, we might get to Beckenham assoon as or sooner than the carriage. On reaching Scotland Yard,however, it was more than an hour before we could get InspectorGregson and comply with the legal formalities which would enable us toenter the house. It was a quarter to ten before we reached LondonBridge, and half past before the four of us alighted on theBeckenham platform. A drive of half a mile brought us to The Myrtles-alarge, dark house standing back from the road in its own grounds. Herewe dismissed our cab and made our way up the drive together."The windows are all dark," remarked the inspector. "The house seemsdeserted."

　　"Our birds are flown and the nest empty," said Holmes.

　　"Why do you say so?"

　　"A carriage heavily loaded with luggage has passed out during thelast hour."

　　The inspector laughed. "I saw the wheel-tracks in the light of thegate-lamp, but where does the luggage come in?"

　　"You may have observed the same wheel-tracks going the other way.But the outward-bound ones were very much deeper-so much so that wecan say for a certainty that there was a very considerable weight onthe carriage."

　　"You get a trifle beyond me there," said the inspector, shrugginghis shoulders. "It will not be an easy door to force, but we willtry if we cannot make someone hear us."

　　He hammered loudly at the knocker and pulled at the bell, butwithout any success. Holmes had slipped away, but he came back in afew minutes.

　　"I have a window open," said he.

　　"It is a mercy that you are on the side of the force, and notagainst it, Mr. Holmes," remarked the inspector as he noted the cleverway in which my friend had forced back the catch. "Well, I thinkthat under the circumstances we may enter without an invitation."One after the other we made our way into a large apartment, whichwas evidently that in which Mr. Melas had found himself. The inspectorhad lit his lantern, and by its light we could see the two doors,the curtain, the lamp, and the suit of Japanese mail as he haddescribed them. On the table lay two glasses, an empty

　　brandy-bottle, and the remains of a meal.

　　"What is that?" asked Holmes suddenly.

　　We all stood still and listened. A low moaning sound was coming fromsomewhere over our heads. Holmes rushed to the door and out into thehall. The dismal noise came from upstairs. He dashed up, the inspectorand I at his heels, while his brother Mycroft followed as quickly ashis great bulk would permit.

　　Three doors faced us upon the second floor, and it was from thecentral of these that the sinister sounds were issuing, sinkingsometimes into a dull mumble and rising again into a shrill whine.It was locked, but the key had been left on the outside. Holmesflung open the door and rushed in, but he was out again in an instant,with his hand to his throat.

　　"It's charcoal," he cried. "Give it time. It will clear."Peering in, we could see that the only light in the room came from adull blue flame which flickered from a small brass tripod in thecentre. It threw a livid, unnatural circle upon the floor, while inthe shadows beyond we saw the vague loom of two figures which crouchedagainst the wall. From the open door there reeked a horrible poisonousexhalation which set us gasping and coughing. Holmes rushed to the topof the stairs to draw in the fresh air, and then, dashing into theroom, he threw up the window and hurled the brazen tripod out into thegarden.

　　"We can enter in a minute," he gasped, darting out again. "Whereis a candle? I doubt if we could strike a match in that atmosphere.Hold the light at the door and we shall get them out, Mycroft, now!"With a rush we got to the poisoned men and dragged them out into thewell lit hall. Both of them were blue-lipped and insensible, withswollen, congested faces and protruding eyes. Indeed, so distortedwere their features that, save for his black beard and stout figure,we might have failed to recognize in one of them the Greek interpreterwho had parted from us only a few hours before at the Diogenes Club.His hands and feet were securely strapped together, and he bore overone eye the marks of a violent blow. The other, who was secured in asimilar fashion, was a tall man in the last stage of emaciation,with several strips of stickingplaster arranged in a grotesque patternover his face. He had ceased to moan as we laid him down, and a glanceshowed me that for him at least our aid had come too late. Mr.Melas, however, still lived, and in less than an hour, with the aid ofammonia and brandy, I had the satisfaction of seeing him open hiseyes, and of knowing that my hand had drawn him back from that darkvalley in which all paths meet.

　　It was a simple story which he had to tell, and one which did butconfirm our own deductions. His visitor, on entering his rooms, haddrawn a life-preserver from his sleeve, and had so impressed himwith the fear of instant and inevitable death that he had kidnappedhim for the second time. Indeed, it was almost mesmeric, the effectwhich this giggling ruffian had produced upon the unfortunatelinguist, for he could not speak of him save with trembling handsand a blanched cheek. He had been taken swiftly to Beckenham, andhad acted as interpreter in a second interview, even more dramaticthan the first, in which the two Englishmen had menaced their prisonerwith instant death if he did not comply with their demands. Finally,finding him proof against every threat, they had hurled him backinto his prison, and after reproaching Melas with his treachery, whichappeared from the newspaper advertisement, they had stunned him with ablow from a stick, and he remembered nothing more until he found usbending over him.

　　And this was the singular case of the Grecian Interpreter, theexplanation of which is still involved in some mystery. We were ableto find out, by communicating with the gentleman who had answeredthe advertisement, that the unfortunate young lady came of a wealthyGrecian family, and that she had been on a visit to some friends inEngland. While there she had met a young man named Harold Latimer, whohad acquired an ascendency over her and had eventually persuaded herto fly with him. Her friends, shocked at the event, had contentedthemselves with informing her brother at Athens, and had then washedtheir hands of the matter. The brother, on his arrival in England, hadimprudently placed himself in the power of Latimer and of hisassociate, whose name was Wilson Kemp-a man of the foulestantecedents. These two, finding that through his ignorance of thelanguage he was helpless in their hands, had kept him a prisoner,and had endeavoured by cruelty and starvation to make him sign awayhis own and his sister's property. They had kept him in the housewithout the girl's knowledge, and the plaster over the face had beenfor the purpose of making recognition difficult in case she shouldever catch a glimpse of him. Her feminine perceptions, however, hadinstantly seen through the disguise when, on the occasion of theinterpreter's visit, she had seen him for the first time. The poorgirl, however, was herself a prisoner, for there was no one aboutthe house except the man who acted as coachman, and his wife, bothof whom were tools of the conspirators. Finding that their secretwas out, and that their prisoner was not to be coerced, the twovillains with the girl had fled away at a few hours' notice from thefurnished house which they had hired, having first, as they thought,taken vengeance both upon the man who had defied and the one who hadbetrayed them.

　　Months afterwards a curious newspaper cutting reached us fromBudapest. It told how two Englishmen who had been travelling with awoman had met with a tragic end. They had each been stabbed, it seems,and the Hungarian police were of opinion that they had quarrelledand had inflicted mortal injuries upon each other. Holmes, however,is, I fancy, of a different way of thinking, and he holds to thisday that, if one could find the Grecian girl, one might learn howthe wrongs of herself and her brother came to be avenged.THE END

　　.

　　1891

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE MAN WITH THE TWISTED LIP

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　Isa Whitney, brother of the late Elias Whitney, D.D., Principal ofthe Theological College of St. George's, was much addicted to opium.He habit grew upon him, as I understand, from some foolish freakwhen he was at college; for having read De Quincey's description ofhis dreams and sensations, he had drenched his tobacco with laudanumin an attempt to produce the same effects. He found, as so many morehave done, that the practice is easier to attain than to get rid of,and for many years he continued to be a slave to the drug, an objectof mingled horror and pity to his friends and relatives. I can see himnow, with yellow, pasty face, drooping lids, and pin-point pupils, allhuddled in a chair, the wreck and ruin of a noble man.

　　One night-it was in June, '89-there came a ring to my bell, aboutthe hour when a man gives his first yawn and glances at the clock. Isat up in my chair, and my wife laid her needle-work down in her lapand made a little face of disappointment.

　　"A patient!" said she. "You'll have to go out."

　　I groaned, for I was newly come back from a weary day.

　　We heard the door open, a few hurried words, and then quick stepsupon the linoleum. Our own door flew open, and a lady, clad in somedark-coloured stuff, with a black veil, entered the room."You will excuse my calling so late," she began, and then,suddenly losing her self-control, she ran forward, threw her armsabout my wife's neck, and sobbed upon her shoulder. "Oh, I'm in suchtrouble!" she cried; "I do so want a little help."

　　"Why," said my wife, pulling up her veil, "it is Kate Whitney. Howyou startled me, Kate! I had not an idea who you were when you camein."

　　"I didn't know what to do, so I came straight to you." That wasalways the way. Folk who were in grief came to my wife like birds to alight-house.

　　"It was very sweet of you to come. Now, you must have some wineand water, and sit here comfortably and tell us all about it. Orshould you rather that I sent James off to bed?"

　　"Oh, no, no! I want the doctor's advice and help, too. It's aboutIsa. He has not been home for two days. I am so frightened about him!"It was not the first time that she had spoken to us of her husband'strouble, to me as a doctor, to my wife as an old friend and schoolcompanion. We soothed and comforted her by such words as we couldfind. Did she know where her husband was? Was it possible that wecould bring him back to her?

　　It seems that it was. She had the surest information that of late hehad, when the fit was on him, made use of an opium den in the farthesteast of the City. Hitherto his orgies had always been confined toone day, and he had come back, twitching and shattered, in theevening. But now the spell had been upon him eight-and forty hours,and he lay there, doubtless among the dregs of the docks, breathing inthe poison or sleeping off the effects. There he was to be found,she was sure of it, at the Bar of Gold, in Upper Swandam Lane. Butwhat was she to do? How could she, a young and timid woman, make herway into such a place and pluck her husband out from among theruffians who surrounded him?

　　There was the case, and of course there was but one way out of it.Might I not escort her to this place? And then, as a second thought,why should she come at all? I was Isa Whitney's medical adviser, andas such I had influence over him. I could manage it better if I werealone. I promised her on my word that I would send him home in a cabwithin two hours if he were indeed at the address which she hadgiven me. And so in ten minutes I had left my armchair and cheerysitting-room behind me, and was speeding eastward in a hansom on astrange errand, as it seemed to me at the time, though the future onlycould show how strange it was to be.

　　But there was no great difficulty in the first stage of myadventure. Upper Swandam Lane is a vile alley lurking behind thehigh wharves which line the north side of the river to the east ofLondon Bridge. Between a slop-shop and a gin-shop, approached by asteep flight of steps leading down to a black gap like the mouth ofa cave, I found the den of which I was in search. Ordering my cab towait, I passed down the steps, worn hollow in the centre by theceaseless tread of drunken feet and by the light of a flickeringoillamp above the door I found the latch and made my way into along, low room, thick and heavy with the brown opium smoke, andterraced with wooden berths, like the forecastle of an emigrant ship.Through the gloom one could dimly catch a glimpse of bodies lying instrange fantastic poses, bowed shoulders, bent knees, heads thrownback, and chins pointing upward, with here and there a dark,lack-lustre eye turned upon the newcomer. Out of the black shadowsthere glimmered little red circles of light, now bright, now faint, asthe burning poison waxed or waned in the bowls of the metal pipes. Themost lay silent, but some muttered to themselves, and others talkedtogether in a strange, low, monotonous voice, their conversationcoming in gushes, and then suddenly tailing off into silence, eachmumbling out his own thoughts and paying little heed to the words ofhis neighbour. At the farther end was a small brazier of burningcharcoal, beside which on a three-legged wooden stool there sat atall, thin old man, with his jaw resting upon his two fists, and hiselbows upon his knees, staring into the fire.

　　As I entered, a sallow Malay attendant had hurried up with a pipefor me and a supply of the drug, beckoning me to an empty berth."Thank you. I have not come to stay," said I. "There is a friendof mine here, Mr. Isa Whitney, and I wish to speak with him."There was a movement and an exclamation from my right, and peeringthrough the gloom I saw Whitney, pale, haggard, and unkempt staringout at me.

　　"My God! It's Watson," said he. He was in a pitiable state ofreaction, with every nerve in a twitter. "I say, Watson, whato'clock is it?"

　　"Nearly eleven."

　　"Of what day?'

　　"Of Friday, June 19th."

　　"Good heavens! I thought it was Wednesday. It is Wednesday. Whatd'you want to frighten the chap for?" He sank his face onto his armsand began to sob in a high treble key.

　　"I tell you that it is Friday, man. Your wife has been waitingthis two days for you. You should be ashamed of yourself!""So I am. But you've got mixed, Watson, for I have only been herea few hours, three pipes, four pipes-I forget how many. But I'll gohome with you. I wouldn't frighten Kate-poor little Kate. Give me yourhand! Have you a cab?"

　　"Yes, I have one waiting."

　　"Then I shall go in it. But I must owe something. Find what I owe,Watson. I am all off colour. I can do nothing for myself."I walked down the narrow passage between the double row of sleepers,holding my breath to keep out the vile, stupefying fumes of thedrug, and looking about for the manager. As I passed the tall manwho sat by the brazier I felt a sudden pluck at my skirt, and a lowvoice whispered, "Walk past me, and then look back at me." The wordsfell quite distinctly upon my ear. I glanced down. They could onlyhave come from the old man at my side, and yet he sat now asabsorbed as ever, very thin, very wrinkled, bent with age, an opiumpipe dangling down from between his knees, as though it had dropped insheer lassitude from his fingers. I took two steps forward andlooked back. It took all my self-control to prevent me from breakingout into a cry of astonishment. He had turned his back so that nonecould see him but I. His form had filled out, his wrinkles weregone, the dull eyes had regained their fire, and there, sitting by thefire and grinning at my surprise, was none other than Sherlock Holmes.He made a slight motion to me to approach him, and instantly, as heturned his face half round to the company once more, subsided into adoddering, loose-lipped senility.

　　"Holmes!" I whispered, "what on earth are you doing in this den?""As low as you can," he answered; "I have excellent ears. If youwould have the great kindness to get rid of that sottish friend ofyours I should be exceedingly glad to have a little talk with you.""I have a cab outside."

　　"Then pray send him home in it. You may safely trust him, for heappears to be too limp to get into any mischief. I should recommendyou also to send a note by the cabman to your wife to say that youhave thrown in your lot with me. If you will wait outside, I shallbe with you in five minutes."

　　It was difficult to refuse any of Sherlock Holmes's requests, forthey were always so exceedingly definite, and put forward with sucha quiet air of mastery. I felt, however, that when Whitney was onceconfined in the cab my mission was practically accomplished; and forthe rest, I could not wish anything better than to be associatedwith my friend in one of those singular adventures which were thenormal condition of his existence. In a few minutes I had written mynote, paid Whitney's bill, led him out to the cab, and seen him driventhrough the darkness. In a very short time a decrepit figure hademerged from the opium den, and I was walking down the street withSherlock Holmes. For two streets he shuffled along with a bent backand an uncertain foot. Then, glancing quickly round, he straightenedhimself out and burst into a hearty fit of laughter.

　　"I suppose, Watson," said he, "that you imagine that I have addedopium smoking to cocaine injections, and all the other littleweaknesses on which you have favoured me with your medical views.""I was certainly surprised to find you there."

　　"But not more so than I to find you."

　　"I came to find a friend."

　　"And I to find an enemy."

　　"An enemy?"

　　"Yes; one of my natural enemies, or, shall I say, my natural prey.Briefly, Watson, I am in the midst of a very remarkable inquiry, and Ihave hoped to find a clue in the incoherent ramblings of these sots,as I have done before now. Had I been recognized in that den my lifewould not have been worth an hour's purchase; for I have used itbefore now for my own purposes, and the rascally lascar who runs ithas sworn to have vengeance upon me. There is a trap-door at theback of that building, near the corner of Paul's Wharf, which couldtell some strange tales of what has passed through it upon themoonless nights."

　　"What! You do not mean bodies?"

　　"Ay, bodies, Watson. We should be rich men if we had L1000 for everypoor devil who has been done to death in that den. It is the vilestmurder-trap on the whole riverside, and I fear that Neville St.Clair has entered it never to leave it more. But our trap should behere." He put his two forefingers between his teeth and whistledshrilly-a signal which was answered by a similar whistle from thedistance, followed shortly by the rattle of wheels and the clink ofhorses' hoofs.

　　"Now, Watson," said Holmes, as a tall dog-cart dashed up through thegloom, throwing out two golden tunnels of yellow light from its sidelanterns. "You'll come with me, won't you?"

　　"If I can be of use."

　　"Oh, a trusty comrade is always of use; and a chronicler stillmore so. My room at The Cedars is a double-bedded one.""The Cedars?"

　　"Yes; that is Mr. St. Clair's house. I am staying there while Iconduct the inquiry."

　　"Where is it, then?"

　　"Near Lee, in Kent. We have a seven-mile drive before us.""But I am all in the dark."

　　"Of course you are. You'll know all about it presently. Jump uphere. All right, John; we shall not need you. Here's half a crown.Look out for me to-morrow, about eleven. Give her head. So long,then!"

　　He flicked the horse with his whip, and we dashed away through theendless succession of sombre and deserted streets, which widenedgradually, until we were flying across a broad balustraded bridge,with the murky river flowing sluggishly beneath us. Beyond lay anotherdull wilderness of bricks and mortar, its silence broken only by theheavy, regular footfall of the policeman, or the songs and shouts ofsome belated party of revellers. A dull wrack was drifting slowlyacross the sky, and a star or two twinkled dimly here and therethrough the rifts of the clouds' Holmes drove in silence, with hishead sunk upon his breast, and the air of a man who is lost inthought, while I sat beside him, curious to learn what this newquest might be which seemed to tax his powers so sorely, and yetafraid to break in upon the current of his thoughts. We had drivenseveral miles, and were beginning to get to the fringe of the beltof suburban villas, when he shook himself, shrugged his shoulders, andlit up his pipe with the air of a man who has satisfied himself thathe is acting for the best.

　　"You have a grand gift of silence, Watson," said he. "It makes youquite invaluable as a companion. 'Pon my word, it is a great thing forme to have someone to talk to, for my own thoughts are notover-pleasant. I was wondering what I should say to this dear littlewoman to-night when she meets me at the door."

　　"You forget that I know nothing about it.'

　　"I shall just have time to tell you the facts of the case beforewe get to Lee. It seems absurdly simple, and yet somehow, I can getnothing to go upon. There's plenty of thread, no doubt, but I can'tget the end of it into my hand. Now, I'll state the case clearly andconcisely to you, Watson, and maybe you can see a spark where all isdark to me."

　　"Proceed then."

　　"Some years ago-to be definite, in May, 1884-there came to Lee agentleman, Neville St. Clair by name, who appeared to have plenty ofmoney. He took a large Villa, laid out the grounds very nicely, andlived generally in good style. By degrees he made friends in theneighbourhood, and in 1887 he married the daughter of a localbrewer, by whom he now has two children. He had no occupation, but wasinterested in several companies and went into town as a rule in themorning, returning by the 5:14 from Cannon Street every night. Mr. St.Clair is now thirty seven years of age, is a man of temperatehabits, a good husband, a very affectionate father, and a man who ispopular with all who know him. I may add that his whole debts at thepresent moment, as far as we have been able to ascertain, amount toL88 10s., while he has L220 standing to his credit in the Capitaland Counties Bank. There is no reason, therefore, to think thatmoney troubles have been weighing upon his mind.

　　"Last Monday Mr. Neville St. Clair went into town rather earlierthan usual, remarking before he started that he had two importantcommissions to perform, and that he would bring his little boy homea box of bricks. Now, by the merest chance, his wife received atelegram upon this same Monday, very shortly after his departure, tothe effect that a small parcel of considerable value which she hadbeen expecting was waiting for her at the offices of the AberdeenShipping Company. Now, if you are well up in your London, you willknow that the office of the company is in Fresno Street, whichbranches out of Upper Swandam Lane, where you found me to-night.Mrs. St. Clair had her lunch, started for the City, did some shopping,proceeded to the company's office, got her packet, and found herselfat exactly 4:35 walking through Swandam Lane on her way back to thestation. Have you followed me so far?"

　　"It is very clear."

　　"If you remember, Monday was an exceedingly hot day, and Mrs. St.Clair walked slowly, glancing about in the hope of seeing a cab, asshe did not like the neighbourhood in which she found herself. Whileshe was walking in this way down Swandam Lane, she suddenly heard anejaculation or cry, and was struck cold to see her husband lookingdown at her and, as it seemed to her, beckoning to her from asecond-floor window. The window was open, and she distinctly saw hisface, which she describes as being terribly agitated. He waved hishands frantically to her, and then vanished from the window sosuddenly that it seemed to her that he had been plucked back by someirresistible force from behind. One singular point which struck herquick feminine eye was that although he wore some dark coat, such ashe had started to town in, he had on neither collar nor necktie."Convinced that something was amiss with him, she rushed down thesteps- for the house was none other than the opium den in which youfound me to-night- and running through the front room she attempted toascend the stairs which led to the first floor. At the foot of thestairs, however, she met this lascar scoundrel of whom I havespoken, who thrust her back and, aided by a Dane, who acts asassistant there, pushed her out into the street. Filled with themost maddening doubts and fears, she rushed down the lane and, by raregood-fortune, met in Fresno Street a number of constables with aninspector, all on their way to their beat. The inspector and two menaccompanied her back, and in spite of the continued resistance ofthe proprietor, they made their way to the room in which Mr. St. Clairhad last been seen. There was no sign of him there. In fact, in thewhole of that floor there was no one to be found save a crippledwretch of hideous aspect, who, it seems, made his home there. Bothhe and the lascar stoutly swore that no one else had been in the frontroom during the afternoon. So determined was their denial that theinspector was staggered, and had almost come to believe that Mrs.St. Clair had been deluded when, with a cry, she sprang at a smalldeal box which lay upon the table and tore the lid from it. Outthere fell a cascade of children's bricks. It was the toy which he hadpromised to bring home.

　　"This discovery, and the evident confusion which the cripple showed,made the inspector realize that the matter was serious. The rooms werecarefully examined, and results all pointed to an abominable crime.The front room was plainly furnished as a sitting-room and led intoa small bedroom, which looked out upon the back of one of the wharves.Between the wharf and the bedroom window is a narrow strip, which isdry at low tide but is covered at high tide with at least four and ahalf feet of water. The bedroom window was a broad one and opened frombelow. On examination traces of blood were to be seen upon thewindow-sill, and several scattered drops were visible upon thewooden floor of the bedroom. Thrust away behind a curtain in the frontroom were all the clothes of Mr. Neville St. Clair, with the exceptionof his coat. His boots, his socks, his hat, and his watch-all werethere. There were no signs of violence upon any of these garments, andthere were no other traces of Mr. Neville St. Clair. Out of the windowhe must apparently have gone, for no other exit could be discovered,and the ominous bloodstains upon the sill gave little promise thathe could save himself by swimming, for the tide was at its veryhighest at the moment of the tragedy.

　　"And now as to the villains who seemed to be immediatelyimplicated in the matter. The lascar was known to be a man of thevilest antecedents, but as, by Mrs. St. Clair's story, he was known tohave been at the foot of the stair within a very few seconds of herhusband's appearance at the window, he could hardly have been morethan an accessory to the crime. His defense was one of absoluteignorance, and he protested that he had no knowledge as to thedoings of Hugh Boone, his lodger, and that he could not account in anyway for the presence of the missing gentleman's clothes."So much for the lascar manager. Now for the sinister cripple wholives upon the second floor of the opium den, and who was certainlythe last human being whose eyes rested upon Neville St. Clair. Hisname is Hugh Boone, and his hideous face is one which is familiar toevery man who goes much to the City. He is a professional beggar,though in order to avoid the police regulations he pretends to a smalltrade in wax vestas. Some little distance down Thread needle Street,upon the left-hand side, there is, as you may have remarked, a smallangle in the wall. Here it is that this creature takes his daily seat,crosslegged, with his tiny stock of matches on his lap, and as he is apiteous spectacle a small rain of charity descends into the greasyleather cap which lies upon the pavement beside him. I have watchedthe fellow more than once before ever I thought of making hisprofessional acquaintance, and I have been surprised at the harvestwhich he has reaped in a short time. His appearance, you see, is soremarkable that no one can pass him without observing him. A shockof orange hair, a pale face disfigured by a horrible scar, which, byits contraction, has turned up the outer edge of his upper lip, abulldog chin, and a pair of very penetrating dark eyes, whichpresent a singular contrast to the colour of his hair, all mark himout from amid the common crowd of mendicants, and so, too, does hiswit, for he is ever ready with a reply to any piece of chaff which maybe thrown at him by the passers-by. This is the man whom we nowlearn to have been the lodger at the opium den, and to have been thelast man to see the gentleman of whom we are in quest.""But a cripple!" said I. "What could he have done single-handedagainst a man in the prime of life?"

　　"He is a cripple in the sense that he walks with a limp; but inother respects he appears to be a powerful and well-nurtured man.Surely your medical experience would tell you, Watson, that weaknessin one limb is often compensated for by exceptional strength in theothers."

　　"Pray continue your narrative."

　　"Mrs. St. Clair had fainted at the sight of the blood upon thewindow, and she was escorted home in a cab by the police, as herpresence could be of no help to them in their investigations.Inspector Barton, who had charge of the case, made a very carefulexamination of the premises, but without finding anything whichthrew any light upon the matter. One mistake had been made in notarresting Boone instantly, as he was allowed some few minutes duringwhich he might have communicated with his friend the lascar, butthis fault was soon remedied, and he was seized and searched,without anything being found which could incriminate him. Therewere, it is true, some blood-stains upon his right shirt-sleeve, buthe pointed to his ring-finger, which had been cut near the nail, andexplained that the bleeding came from there, adding that he had beento the window not long before, and that the stains which had beenobserved there came doubtless from the same source. He deniedstrenuously having ever seen Mr. Neville St. Clair and swore thatthe presence of the clothes in his room was as much a mystery to himas to the police. As to Mrs. St. Clair's assertion that she hadactually seen her husband at the window, he declared that she musthave been either mad or dreaming. He was removed, loudly protesting,to the police-station, while the inspector remained upon thepremises in the hope that the ebbing tide might afford some freshclue.

　　"And it did, though they hardly found upon the mud-bank what theyhad feared to find. It was Neville St. Clair's coat, and not NevilleSt. Clair, which lay uncovered as the tide receded. And what do youthink they found in the pockets?"

　　"I cannot imagine."

　　"No, I don't think you would guess. Every pocket stuffed withpennies and halfpennies-421 pennies and 270 half-pennies. It was nowonder that it had not been swept away by the tide. But a human bodyis a different matter. There is a fierce eddy between the wharf andthe house. It seemed likely enough that the weighted coat had remainedwhen the stripped body had been sucked away into the river.""But I understand that all the other clothes were found in the room.Would the body be dressed in a coat alone?"

　　"No, sir, but the facts might be met speciously enough. Suppose thatthis man Boone had thrust Neville St. Clair through the window,there is no human eye which could have seen the deed. What would he dothen? It would of course instantly strike him that he must get ridof the tell-tale garments. He would seize the coat, then, and be inthe act of throwing it out, when it would occur to him that it wouldswim and not sink. He has little time, for he has heard the scuffledownstairs when the wife tried to force her way up, and perhaps he hasalready heard from his lascar confederate that the police are hurryingup the street. There is not an instant to be lost. He rushes to somesecret hoard, where he has accumulated the fruits of his beggary,and he stuffs all the coins upon which he can lay his hands into thepockets to make sure of the coats sinking. He throws it out, and wouldhave done the same with the other garments had not he heard the rushof steps below, and only just had time to close the window when thepolice appeared."

　　"It certainly sounds feasible."

　　"Well, we will take it as a working hypothesis for want of a better.Boone, as I have told you, was arrested and taken to the station,but it could not be shown that there had ever before been anythingagainst him. He had for years been known as a professional beggar, buthis life appeared to have been a very quiet and innocent one. Therethe matter stands at present, and the questions which have to besolved-what Neville St. Clair was doing in the opium den, whathappened to him when there, where is he now, and what Hugh Boone hadto do with his disappearance- are all as far from a solution asever. I confess that I cannot recall any case within my experiencewhich looked at the first glance so simple and yet which presentedsuch difficulties."

　　While Sherlock Holmes had been detailing this singular series ofevents, we had been whirling through the outskirts of the great townuntil the last straggling houses had been left behind, and werattled along with a country hedge upon either side of us. just ashe finished, however, we drove through two scattered villages, where afew lights still glimmered in the windows.

　　"We are on the outskirts of Lee," said my companion. "We havetouched on three English counties in our short drive, starting inMiddlesex, passing over an angle of Surrey, and ending in Kent. Seethat light among the trees? That is The Cedars, and beside that lampsits a woman whose anxious ears have already, I have little doubt,caught the clink of our horse's feet."

　　"But why are you not conducting the case from Baker Street?" Iasked.

　　"Because there are many inquiries which must be made out here.Mrs. St. Clair has most kindly put two rooms at my disposal, and youmay rest assured that she will have nothing but a welcome for myfriend and colleague. I hate to meet her, Watson, when I have nonews of her husband. Here we are. Whoa, there, whoa!"

　　We had pulled up in front of a large villa which stood within itsown grounds. A stable-boy had run out to the horse's head, andspringing down I followed Holmes up the small, winding gravel-drivewhich led to the house. As we approached, the door flew open, and alittle blonde woman stood in the opening' clad in some sort of lightmousseline de soie, with a touch of fluffy pink chiffon at her neckand wrists. She stood with her figure outlined against the flood oflight, one hand upon the door, one half-raised in her eagerness, herbody slightly bent, her head and face protruded, with eager eyes andparted lips, a standing question.

　　"Well?" she cried, "Well?" And then, seeing that there were two ofus, she gave a cry of hope which sank into a groan as she saw thatmy companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders."No good news?"

　　"None."

　　"No bad?"

　　"No."

　　"Thank God for that. But come in. You must be weary, for you havehad a long day."

　　"This is my friend, Dr. Watson. He has been of most vital use tome in several of my cases, and a lucky chance has made it possible forme to bring him out and associate him with this investigation.""I am delighted to see you," said she, pressing my hand warmly. "Youwill, I am sure, forgive anything that may be wanting in ourarrangements, when you consider the blow which has come so suddenlyupon us."

　　"My dear madam," said I, "I am an old campaigner, and if I werenot I can very well see that no apology is needed. If I can be ofany assistance, either to you or to my friend here, I shall beindeed happy."

　　"Now, Mr. Sherlock Holmes," said the lady as we entered a well litdining-room, upon the table of which a cold supper had been laidout, "I should very much like to ask you one or two plain questions,to which I beg that you will give a plain answer."

　　"Certainly, madam."

　　"Do not trouble about my feelings. I am not hysterical, nor given tofainting. I simply wish to hear your real, real opinion.""Upon what point?"

　　"In your heart of hearts, do you think that Neville is alive?"Sherlock Holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question."Frankly, now!" she repeated, standing upon the rug and looking keenlydown at him as he leaned back in a basket-chair.

　　"Frankly, then, madam, I do not."

　　"You think that he is dead?"

　　"I do."

　　"Murdered?"

　　"I don't say that. Perhaps."

　　"And on what day did he meet his death?"

　　"On Monday."

　　"Then perhaps, Mr. Holmes, you will be good enough to explain how itis that I have received a letter from him to-day."

　　Sherlock Holmes sprang out of his chair as if he had beengalvanized.

　　"What!" he roared.

　　"Yes, to-day." She stood smiling, holding up a little slip ofpaper in the air.

　　"May I see it?"

　　"'Certainly."

　　He snatched it from her in his eagerness, and smoothing it outupon the table he drew over the lamp and examined it intently. I hadleft my chair and was gazing at it over his shoulder. The envelope wasa very coarse one and was stamped with the Gravesend postmark and withthe date of that very day, or rather of the day before, for it wasconsiderably after midnight.

　　"Coarse writing," murmured Holmes. "Surely this is not yourhusband's writing, madam."

　　"No, but the enclosure is."

　　"I perceive also that whoever addressed the envelope had to go andinquire as to the address."

　　"How can you tell that?"

　　"The name, you see, is in perfectly black ink, which has drieditself. The rest is of the grayish colour, which shows thatblotting-paper has been used. If it had been written straight off, andthen blotted, none would be of a deep black shade. This man haswritten the name, and there has then been a pause before he wrotethe address, which can only mean that he was not familiar with it.It is, of course, a trifle, but there is nothing so important astrifles. Let us now see the letter. Ha! There has been an enclosurehere!"

　　"Yes, there was a ring. His signet-ring."

　　"And you are sure that this is your husband's hand?"

　　"One of his hands."

　　"One?"

　　"His hand when he wrote hurriedly. It is very unlike his usualwriting, and yet I know it well."

　　"Dearest do not be frightened. All will come well. There is a hugeerror which it may take some little time to rectify. Wait inpatience."

　　"NEVILLE.

　　Written in pencil upon the fly-leaf of a book, octavo size, nowater-mark. Hum! Posted to-day in Gravesend by a man with a dirtythumb. Ha! And the flap has been gummed, if I am not very much inerror, by a person who had been chewing tobacco. And you have no doubtthat it is your husband's hand, madam?"

　　"None. Neville wrote those words."

　　"And they were posted to-day at Gravesend. Well, Mrs. St. Clair, theclouds lighten, though I should not venture to say that the dangeris over."

　　"But he must be alive, Mr. Holmes."

　　"Unless this is a clever forgery to put us on the wrong scent. Thering, after all, proves nothing. It may have been taken from him.""No, no; it is, it is his very own writing!"

　　"Very well. It may, however, have been written on Monday and onlyposted to-day."

　　"That is possible."

　　"If so, much may have happened between."

　　"Oh, you must not discourage me, Mr. Holmes. I know that all is wellwith him. There is so keen a sympathy between us that I should know ifevil came upon him. On the very day that I saw him last he cut himselfin the bedroom, and yet I in the dining-room rushed upstairs instantlywith the utmost certainty that something had happened. Do you thinkthat I would respond to such a trifle and yet be ignorant of hisdeath?"

　　"I have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman maybe more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical reasoner. And inthis letter you certainly have a very strong piece of evidence tocorroborate your view. But if your husband is alive and able towrite letters, why should he remain away from you?"

　　"I cannot imagine. It is unthinkable."

　　"And on Monday he made no remarks before leaving you?"

　　"No."

　　"And you were surprised to see him in Swandam Lane?"

　　"Very much so."

　　"Was the window open?"

　　"Yes."

　　"Then he might have called to you?"

　　"He might."

　　"He only, as I understand, gave an inarticulate cry?"

　　"Yes."

　　"A call for help, you thought?"

　　"Yes. He waved his hands."

　　"But it might have been a cry of surprise. Astonishment at theunexpected sight of you might cause him to throw up his hands?""It is possible."

　　"And you thought he was pulled back?"

　　"He disappeared so suddenly."

　　"He might have leaped back. You did not see anyone else in theroom?"

　　"No, but this horrible man confessed to having been there, and thelascar was at the foot of the stairs."

　　"Quite so. Your husband, as far as you could see, had his ordinaryclothes on?"

　　"But without his collar or tie. I distinctly saw his bare throat.""Had he ever spoken of Swandam Lane?"

　　"Never."

　　"Had he ever showed any signs of having taken opium?"

　　"Never."

　　"Thank you, Mrs. St. Clair. Those are the principal points aboutwhich I wished to be absolutely clear. We shall now have a littlesupper and then retire, for we may have a very busy day to-morrow."A large and comfortable double-bedded room. had been placed at ourdisposal, and I was quickly between the sheets, for I was wearyafter my night of adventure. Sherlock Holmes was a man, however,who, when he had an unsolved problem upon his mind, would go for days,and even for a week, without rest, turning it over, rearranging hisfacts, looking at it from every point of view until he had eitherfathomed it or convinced himself that his data were insufficient. Itwas soon evident to me that he was now preparing for an all-nightsitting. He took off his coat and waistcoat, put on a large bluedressing-gown, and then wandered about the room collecting pillowsfrom his bed and cushions from the sofa and armchairs. With these heconstructed a sort of Eastern divan, upon which he perched himselfcross-legged, with an ounce of shag tobacco and a box of matcheslaid out in front of him. In the dim light of the lamp I saw himsitting there, an old briar pipe between his lips, his eyes fixedvacantly upon the corner of the ceiling, the blue smoke curling upfrom him, silent, motionless, with the light shining upon hisstrong-set aqualine features. So he sat as I dropped off to sleep,and so he sat when a sudden ejaculation caused me to wake up, and Ifound the summer sun shining into the apartment The pipe was stillbetween his lips, the smoke still curled upward, and the room wasfull of a dense tobacco haze, but nothing remained of the heap ofshag which I had seen upon the previous night.

　　"Awake, Watson?" he asked.

　　"Yes."

　　"Game for a morning drive?"

　　"Certainly."

　　"Then dress. No one is stirring yet, but I know where the stable-boysleeps, and we shall soon have the trap out." He chuckled to himselfas he spoke, his eyes twinkled, and he seemed a different man to thesombre thinker of the previous night.

　　As I dressed I glanced at my watch. It was no wonder that no one wasstirring. It was twenty-five minutes past four. I had hardlyfinished when Holmes returned with the news that the boy was puttingin the horse.

　　"I want to test a little theory of mine," said he, pulling on hisboots. "I think, Watson, that you are now standing in the presenceof one of the most absolute fools in Europe. I deserve to be kickedfrom here to Charing Cross. But I think I have the key of the affairnow."

　　"And where is it?" I asked, smiling.

　　"In the bathroom," he answered. "Oh, yes, I am not joking," hecontinued, seeing my look of incredulity. "I have just been there, andI have taken it out, and I have got it in the bag. Come on, my boy,and we shall see whether it will not fit the lock."

　　We made our way downstairs as quietly as possible, and out intothe bright morning sunshine. In the road stood our horse and trap,with the half-clad stableboy waiting at the head. We both sprang in,and away we dashed down the London Road. A few country carts werestirring, bearing in vegetables to the metropolis, but metropolis, butthe lines of villas on either side were as silent and lifeless as somecity in a dream.

　　"It has been in some points a singular case," said Holmes,flicking the horse on into a gallop. "I confess that I have been asblind as a mole, but it is better to learn wisdom late than never tolearn it at all."

　　In town the earliest risers were just beginning to look sleepilyfrom their windows as we drove through the streets of the Surrey side,Passing down the Waterloo Bridge Road we crossed over the river, anddashing up Wellington Street wheeled sharply to the right and foundourselves in Bow Street. Sherlock Holmes was well known to theforce, and the two constables at the door saluted him. One of themheld the horse's head while the other led us in.

　　"Who is on duty?" asked Holmes.

　　"Inspector Bradstreet, sir."

　　"Ah, Bradstreet, how are you?" A tall, stout official had comedown the stoneflagged passage, in a peaked cap and frogged jacket."I wish to have a quiet word with you, Bradstreet."

　　"Certainly, Mr. Holmes. Step into my room here."

　　It was a small, office-like room, with a huge ledger upon the table,and a telephone projecting from the wall. The inspector sat down athis desk.

　　"What can I do for you, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"I called about that beggarman, Boone-the one who was charged withbeing concerned in the disappearance of Mr. Neville St. Clair, ofLee."

　　"Yes. He was brought up and remanded for further inquiries.""So I heard. You have him here?"

　　"In the cells."

　　"Is he quiet?"

　　"Oh, he gives no trouble. But he is a dirty scoundrel.""Dirty?"

　　"Yes, it is all we can do to make him wash his hands, and his faceis as black as a tinker's. Well, when once his case has beensettled, he will have a regular prison bath; and I think, if you sawhim, you would agree with me that he needed it."

　　"I should like to see him very much."

　　"Would you? That is easily done. Come this way. You can leave yourbag."

　　"No, I think that I'll take it."

　　"Very good. Come this way, if you please." He led us down a passage,opened a barred door, passed down a winding stair, and brought us to awhitewashed corridor with a line of doors on each side."The third on the right is his," said the inspector. "Here it is!"He quietly shot back a panel in the upper part of the door and glancedthrough.

　　"He is asleep," said he. "You can see him very well."

　　We both put our eyes to the grating. The prisoner lay with hisface towards us, in a very deep sleep, breathing slowly and heavily.He was a middle-sized man, coarsely clad as became his calling, with acoloured shirt protruding through the rent in his tattered coat. Hewas, as the inspector had said, extremely dirty, but the grime whichcovered his face could not conceal its repulsive ugliness. A broadwheal from an old scar ran right across it from eye to chin, and byits contraction had turned up one side of the upper lip, so that threeteeth were exposed in a perpetual snarl. A shock of very bright redhair grew low over his eyes and forehead.

　　"He's a beauty, isn't he?" said the inspector.

　　"He certainly needs a wash," remarked Holmes. "I had an idea that hemight, and I took the liberty of bringing the tools with me." Heopened the Gladstone bag as he spoke, and took out, to myastonishment, a very large bath-sponge.

　　"He! he! You are a funny one," chuckled the inspector.

　　"Now, if you will have the great goodness to open that door veryquietly, we will soon make him cut a much more respectable figure""Well, I don't know why not," said the inspector. "He doesn't look acredit to the Bow Street cells, does he?" He slipped his key intothe lock, and we all very quietly entered the cell. The sleeper halfturned, and then settled down once more into a deep slumber. Holmesstooped to the water-jug, moistened his sponge, and then rubbed ittwice vigorously across and down the prisoner's face.

　　"Let me introduce you," he shouted, "to Mr. Neville St. Clair, ofLee, in the county of Kent."

　　Never in my life have I seen such a sight. The man's face peeled offunder the sponge like the bark from a tree. Gone was the coarsebrown tint! Gone, too, was the horrid scar which had seamed it across,and the twisted lip which had given the repulsive sneer to the face! Atwitch brought away the tangled red hair, and there, sitting up in hisbed, was a pale, sad-faced, refined-looking man, black-haired andsmooth-skinned, rubbing his eyes and staring about him with sleepybewilderment. Then suddenly realizing the exposure, he broke into ascream and threw himself down with his face to the pillow."Great heavens!" cried the inspector, "it is, indeed, the missingman. I know him from the photograph."

　　The prisoner turned with the reckless; air of a man who abandonshimself to his destiny. "Be it so," said he. "And pray, what am Icharged with?"

　　"With making away with Mr. Neville St.-Oh, come, you can't becharged with that unless they make a case of attempted suicide of it,"said the inspector with a grin. "Well, I have been twenty-sevenyears in the force, but this really takes the cake."

　　"If I am Mr. Neville St. Clair, then it is obvious that no crime hasbeen committed, and that, therefore, I am illegally detained.""No crime, but a very great error has been committed," saidHolmes. "You would have done better to have trusted your wife.""It was not the wife; it was the children," groaned the prisoner."God help me, I would not have them ashamed of their father. My God!What an exposure! What can I do?"

　　Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted himkindly on the shoulder.

　　"If you leave it to a court of law to clear the matter up," said he,"of course you can hardly avoid publicity. On the other hand, if youconvince the police authorities that there is no possible case againstyou., I do not know that there is any reason that the details shouldfind their way into the papers. Inspector Bradstreet would, I am sure,make notes upon anything which you might tell us and submit it tothe proper authorities. The case would then never go into court atall."

　　"God bless you!" cried the prisoner passionately. "I would haveendured imprisonment, ay, even execution, rather than have left mymiserable secret as a family blot to my children.

　　"You are the first who have ever heard my story. My father was aschool-master in Chesterfield, where I received an excellenteducation. I travelled in my youth, took to the stage, and finallybecame a reporter on an evening paper in London. One day my editorwished to have a series of articles upon begging in the metropolis,and I volunteered to supply them. There was the point from which allmy adventures started. It was only by trying begging as an amateurthat I could get the facts upon which to base my articles. When anactor I had, of course learned all the secrets of making up, and hadbeen famous in the green-room for my skill. I took advantage now of myattainments. I painted my face, and to make myself as pitiable aspossible I made a good scar and fixed one side of my lip in a twist bythe aid of a small slip of flesh-coloured plaster. Then with a redhead of hair, and an appropriate dress, I took my station in thebusiness part of the city, ostensibly as a match-seller but reallyas a beggar. For seven hours I plied my trade, and when I returnedhome in the evening I found to my surprise that I had received no lessthan 26s. 4d.

　　"I wrote my articles and thought little more of the matter until,some time later, I backed a bill for a friend and had a writ servedupon me for L25. I was at my wit's end where to get the money, but asudden idea came to me. I begged a fortnight's grace from thecreditor, asked for a holiday from my employers, and spent the time inbegging in the City under my disguise. In ten days I had the money andhad paid the debt.

　　"Well, you can imagine how hard it was to settle down to arduouswork at L2 a week when I knew that I could earn as much in a day bysmearing my face with a little paint, laying my cap on the ground, andsitting still. It was a long fight between my pride and the money, butthe dollars won at last, and I threw up reporting and sat day afterday in the corner which I had first chosen, inspiring pity by myghastly face and filling my pockets with coppers. Only one man knew mysecret. He was the keeper of a low den in which I used to lodge inSwandam Lane, where I could every morning emerge as a squalid beggarand in the evenings transform myself into a well-dressed man abouttown. This fellow, a lascar, was well paid by me for his rooms, sothat I knew that my secret was safe in his possession.

　　"Well, very soon I found that I was saving considerable sums ofmoney. I do not mean that any beggar in the streets of London couldearn L700 a year-which is less than my average takings-but I hadexceptional advantages in my power of making up, and also in afacility of repartee, which improved by practice and made me quite arecognized character in the City. All day a stream of pennies,varied by silver, poured in upon me, and it was a very bad day inwhich I failed to take L2.

　　"As I grew richer I grew more ambitious, took a house in thecountry, and eventually married, without anyone having a suspicionas to my real occupation. My dear wife knew that I had business in theCity. She little knew what.

　　"Last Monday I had finished for the day and was dressing in myroom above the opium den when I looked out of my window and saw, to myhorror and astonishment that my wife was standing in the street,with her eyes fixed full upon me. I gave a cry of surprise, threw upmy arms to cover my face, and, rushing to my confidant the lascar,entreated him to prevent anyone from coming up to me. I heard hervoice downstairs, but I knew that she could not ascend. Swiftly Ithrew off my clothes, pulled on those of a beggar, and put on mypigments and wig. Even a wife's eyes could not pierce so complete adisguise. But then it occurred to me that there might be a search inthe room, and that the clothes might betray me. I threw open thewindow, reopening by my violence a small cut which I had inflictedupon myself in the bedroom that morning. Then I seized my coat,which was weighted by the coppers which I had just transferred to itfrom the leather bag in which I carried my takings. I hurled it out ofthe window, and it disappeared into the Thames. The other clotheswould have followed, but at that moment there was a rush of constablesup the stair, and a few minutes after I found, rather, I confess, tomy relief, that instead of being identified as Mr. Neville St.Clair, I was arrested as his murderer.

　　"I do not know that there is anything else for me to explain. Iwas determined to preserve my disguise as long as possible, andhence my preference for a dirty face. Knowing that my wife would beterribly anxious, I slipped off my ring and confided it to thelascar at a moment when no constable was watching me, together witha hurried scrawl, telling her that she had no cause to fear.""That note only reached her yesterday," said Holmes.

　　"Good God! What a week she must have spent!"

　　"The police have watched this lascar," said Inspector Bradstreet,"and I can quite understand that he might find it difficult to posta letter unobserved. Probably he handed it to some sailor customerof his, who forgot all about it for some days."

　　"That was it," said Holmes, nodding approvingly, "I have no doubt ofit. But have you never been prosecuted for begging?"

　　"Many times; but what was a fine to me?"

　　"It must stop here, however," said Bradstreet. "If the police are tohush this thing up, there must be no more of Hugh Boone.""I have sworn it by the most solemn oaths which a man can take.""In that case I think that it is probable that no further stepsmay be taken. But if you are found again, then all must come out. I amsure, Mr. Holmes, that we are very much indebted to you for havingcleared the matter up. I wish I knew how you reach your results.""I reached this one," said my friend, "by sitting upon fivepillows and consuming an ounce of shag. I think, Watson, that if wedrive to Baker Street we shall just be in time for breakfast."-THE END-

　　.

　　1893

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE MUSGRAVE RITUAL

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　An anomaly which often struck me in the character of my friendSherlock Holmes was that, although in his methods of thought he wasthe neatest and most methodical of mankind, and although also heaffected a certain quiet primness of dress, he was nonetheless inhis personal habits one of the most untidy men that ever drove afellow-lodger to distraction. Not that I am in the leastconventional in that respect myself. The rough-and-tumble work inAfghanistan, coming on the top of natural Bohemianism ofdisposition, has made me rather more lax than befits a medical man.But with me there is a limit, and when I find a man who keeps hiscigars in the coal-scuttle, his tobacco in the toe end of a Persianslipper, and his unanswered correspondence transfixed by ajack-knife into the very centre of his wooden mantelpiece, then Ibegin to give myself virtuous airs. I have always held, too, thatpistol practice should be distinctly an open-air pastime; and whenHolmes, in one of his queer humours, would sit in an armchair with hishair-trigger and a hundred Boxer cartridges and proceed to adorn theopposite wall with a patriotic V. R. done in bullet-pocks, I feltstrongly that neither the atmosphere nor the appearance of our roomwas improved by it.

　　Our chambers were always full of chemicals and of criminal relicswhich had a way of wandering into unlikely positions, and of turningup in the butter-dish or in even less desirable places. But his paperswere my great crux. He had a horror of destroying documents,especially those which were connected with his past cases, and yetit was only once in every year or two that he would muster energy todocket and arrange them; for, as I have mentioned somewhere in theseincoherent memoirs, the outbursts of passionate energy when heperformed the remarkable feats with which his name is associatedwere followed by reactions of lethargy during which he would lie aboutwith his violin and his books, hardly moving save from the sofa to thetable. Thus month after month his papers accumulated until everycorner of the room was stacked with bundles of manuscript which wereon no account to be burned, and which could not be put away save bytheir owner. One winter's night, as we sat together by the fire, Iventured to suggest to him that, as he had finished pasting extractsinto his commonplace book, he might employ the next two hours inmaking our room a little more habitable. He could not deny the justiceof my request, so with a rather rueful face he went off to hisbedroom, from which he returned presently pulling a large tin boxbehind him. This he placed in the middle of the floor, and,squatting down upon a stool in front of it, he threw back the lid. Icould see that it was already a third full of bundles of paper tied upwith red tape into separate packages.

　　"There are cases enough here, Watson," said he, looking at me withmischievous eyes. "I think that if you knew all that I had in this boxyou would ask me to pull some out instead of putting others in.""These are the records of your early work, then?" I asked. "I haveoften wished that I had notes of those cases."

　　"Yes, my boy, these were all done prematurely before my biographerhad come to glorify me." He lifted bundle after bundle in a tender,caressing sort of way.

　　"They are not all successes, Watson," said he. "But there are somepretty little problems among them. Here's the record of the Tarletonmurders, and the case of Vamberry, the wine merchant, and theadventure of the old Russian woman, and the singular affair of thealuminum crutch, as well as a full account of Ricoletti of theclub-foot, and his abominable wife. And here-ah, now, this really issomething a little recherche."

　　He dived his arm down to the bottom of the chest and brought up asmall wooden box with a sliding lid such as children's toys are keptin. From within he produced a crumpled piece of paper, anold-fashioned brass key, a peg of wood with a ball of stringattached to it, and three rusty old discs of metal.

　　"Well, my boy, what do you make of this lot?" he asked, smiling atmy expression.

　　"It is a curious collection."

　　"Very curious, and the story that hangs round it will strike youas being more curious still."

　　"These relics have a history, then?"

　　"So much so that they are history."

　　"What do you mean by that?"

　　Sherlock Holmes picked them up one by one and laid them along theedge of the table. Then he reseated himself in his chair and lookedthem over with a gleam of satisfaction in his eyes.

　　"These," said he, "are all that I have left to remind me of theadventure of the Musgrave Ritual."

　　I had heard him mention the case more than once, though I hadnever been able to gather the details. "I should be so glad," saidI, "if you would give me an account of it."

　　"And leave the litter as it is?" he cried mischievously. "Yourtidiness won't bear much strain, after all, Watson. But I should beglad that you should add this case to your annals, for there arepoints in it which make it quite unique in the criminal records ofthis or, I believe, of any other country. A collection of mytrifling achievements would certainly be incomplete which contained noaccount of this very singular business.

　　"You may remember how the affair of the Gloria Scott, and myconversation with the unhappy man whose fate I told you of, firstturned my attention in the direction of the profession which hasbecome my life's work. You see me now when my charge has becomeknown far and wide, and when I am generally recognized both by thepublic and by the official force as being a final court of appeal indoubtful cases. Even when you knew me first, at the time of the affairwhich you have commemorated in 'A Study in Scarlet,' I had alreadyestablished a considerable, though not a very lucrative, connection.You can hardly realize, then, how difficult I found it at first, andhow long I had to wait before I succeeded in making any headway."When I first came up to London I had rooms in Montague Street, justround the corner from the British Museum, and there I waited,filling in my too abundant leisure time by studying all those branchesof science which might make me more efficient. Now and again casescame in my way, principally through the introduction of oldfellow-students, for during my last years at the university therewas a good deal of talk there about myself and my methods. The thirdof these cases was that of the Musgrave Ritual, and it is to theinterest which was aroused by that singular chain of events, and thelarge issues which proved to be at stake, that I trace my first stridetowards the position which I now hold.

　　"Reginald Musgrave had been in the same college as myself, and I hadsome slight acquaintance with him. He was not generally popularamong the undergraduates, though it always seemed to me that whatwas set down as pride was really an attempt to cover extreme naturaldiffidence. In appearance he was a man of an exceedinglyaristocratic type, thin, high-nosed, and large-eyed, with languidand yet courtly manners. He was indeed a scion of one of the veryoldest families in the kingdom, though his branch was a cadet onewhich had separated from the northern Musgraves some time in thesixteenth century and had established itself in western Sussex,where the Manor House of Hurlstone is perhaps the oldest inhabitedbuilding in the county. Something of his birth-place seemed to clingto the man, and I never looked at his pale, keen face or the poiseof his head without associating him with gray archways and mullionedwindows and all the venerable wreckage of a feudal keep. Once or twicewe drifted into talk, and I can remember that more than once heexpressed a keen interest in my methods of observation and inference."For four years I had seen nothing of him until one morning hewalked into my room in Montague Street. He had changed little, wasdressed like a young man of fashion-he was always a bit of a dandy-andpreserved the same quiet, suave manner which had formerlydistinguished him.

　　"'How has all gone with you, Musgrave?' I asked after we hadcordially shaken hands.

　　"'You probably heard of my poor father's death,' said he; 'he wascarried off about two years ago. Since then I have of course had theHurlstone estate to manage, and as I am member for my district aswell, my life has been a busy one. But I understand, Holmes, thatyou are turning to practical ends those powers with which you usedto amaze us?'

　　"'Yes,' said I, 'I have taken to living by my wits.'

　　"'I am delighted to hear it, for your advice at present would beexceedingly valuable to me. We have had some very strange doings atHurlstone, and the police have been able to throw no light upon thematter. It is really the most extraordinary and inexplicablebusiness.'

　　"You can imagine with what eagerness I listened to him, Watson,for the very chance for which I had been panting during all thosemonths of inaction seemed to have come within my reach. In my inmostheart I believed that I could succeed where others failed, and now Ihad the opportunity to test myself.

　　"'Pray let me have the details,' I cried.

　　"Reginald Musgrave sat down opposite to me and lit the cigarettewhich I bad pushed towards him.

　　"'You must know,' said he, 'that though I am a bachelor, I have tokeep up a considerable staff of servants at Hurlstone, for it is arambling old place and takes a good deal of looking after. I preserve,too, and in the pheasant months I usually have a house-party, sothat it would not do to be short-handed. Altogether there are eightmaids, the cook, the butler, two footmen, and a boy. The garden andthe stables of course have a separate staff.

　　"'Of these servants the one who had been longest in our servicewas Brunton, the butler. He was a young schoolmaster out of place whenhe was first taken up by my father, but he was a man of great energyand character, and he soon became quite invaluable in the household.He was a well-grown, handsome man, with a splendid forehead, andthough he has been with us for twenty years he cannot be more thanforty now. With his personal advantages and his extraordinarygifts-for he can speak several languages and play nearly every musicalinstrument-it is wonderful that he should have been satisfied solong in such a position, but I suppose that he was comfortable andlacked energy to make any change. The butler of Hurlstone is alwaysa thing that is remembered by all who visit us.

　　"'But this paragon has one fault. He is a bit of a Don Juan, and youcan imagine that for a man like him it is not a very difficult part toplay in a quiet country district. When he was married it was allright, but since he has been a widower we have had no end of troublewith him. A few months ago we were in hopes that he was about tosettle down again, for he became engaged to Rachel Howells, our secondhousemaid; but he has thrown her over since then and taken up withJanet Tregellis, the daughter of the head game-keeper. Rachel-who is avery good girl, but of an excitable Welsh temperament-had a sharptouch of brain-fever and goes about the house now-or did untilyesterday-like a black-eyed shadow of her former self. That was ourfirst drama at Hurlstone; but a second one came to drive it from ourminds, and it was prefaced by the disgrace and dismissal of butlerBrunton.

　　"'This was how it came about. I have said that the man wasintelligent, and this very intelligence has caused his ruin, for itseems to have led to an insatiable curiosity about things which didnot in the least concern him. I had no idea of the lengths to whichthis would carry him until the merest accident opened my eyes to it."'I have said that the house is a rambling one. One day last week-onThursday night, to be more exact-I found that I could not sleep,having foolishly taken a cup of strong cafe noir after my dinner.After struggling against it until two in the morning, I felt that itwas quite hopeless, so I rose and lit the candle with the intention ofcontinuing a novel which I was reading. The book, however, had beenleft in the billiard-room, so I pulled on my dressing-gown and startedoff to get it.

　　"'In order to reach the billiard-room I had to descend a flight ofstairs and then to cross the head of a passage which led to thelibrary and the gun-room. You can imagine my surprise when, as Ilooked down this corridor, I saw a glimmer of light coming from theopen door of the library. I had myself extinguished the lamp andclosed the door before coming to bed. Naturally my first thought wasof burglars. The corridors at Hurlstone have their walls largelydecorated with trophies of old weapons. From one of these I picked abattle-axe, and then, leaving my candle behind me, I crept on tiptoedown the passage and peeped in at the open door.

　　"'Brunton, the butler, was in the library. He was sitting, fullydressed, in an easy-chair, with a slip of paper which looked like amap upon his knee, and his forehead sunk forward upon his hand in deepthought. I stood dumb with astonishment, watching him from thedarkness. A small taper on the edge of the table shed a feeble lightwhich sufficed to show me that he was fully dressed. Suddenly, as Ilooked, he rose from his chair, and, walking over to a bureau at theside, he unlocked it and drew out one of the drawers. From this hetook a paper, and, returning to his seat, he flattened it out besidethe taper on the edge of the table and began to study it with minuteattention. My indignation at this calm examination of our familydocuments overcame me so far that I took a step forward, andBrunton, looking up, saw me standing in the doorway. He sprang tohis feet, his face turned livid with fear, and he thrust into hisbreast the chart-like paper which he had been originally studying."'"So!" said I. "'"This is how you repay the trust which we havereposed in you. You will leave my service to-morrow."

　　"'He bowed with the look of a man who is utterly crushed and slunkpast me without a word. The taper was still on the table, and by itslight I glanced to see what the paper was which Brunton had taken fromthe bureau. To my surprise it was nothing of any importance at all,but simply a copy of the questions and answers in the singular oldobservance called the Musgrave Ritual. It is a sort of ceremonypeculiar to our family, which each Musgrave for centuries past hasgone through on his coming of age-a thing of private interest, andperhaps of some little importance to the archaeologist, like our ownblazonings and charges, but of no practical use whatever.'"'We had better come back to the paper afterwards,' said I."'If you think it really necessary,' he answered with somehesitation. 'To continue my statement, however: I relocked the bureau,using the key which Brunton had left, and I had turned to go when Iwas surprised to find that the butler had returned, and was standingbefore me.

　　"'"Mr. Musgrave, sir," he cried in a voice which was hoarse withemotion, "I can't bear disgrace, sir. I've always been proud abovemy station in life, and disgrace would kill me. My blood will be onyour head, sir-it will, indeed-if you drive me to despair. If youcannot keep me after what has passed, then for God's sake let megive you notice and leave in a month, as if of my own free will. Icould stand that, Mr. Musgrave, but not to be cast out before allthe folk that I know so well."

　　"'"You don't deserve much consideration, Brunton," I answered. "Yourconduct has been most infamous. However, as you have been a longtime in the family, I have no wish to bring public disgrace uponyou. A month, however, is too long. Take yourself away in a week,and give what reason you like for going."

　　"'"Only a week, sir?" he cried in a despairing voice. "Afortnight-say at least a fortnight!"

　　"'"A week," I repeated, "and you may consider yourself to havebeen very leniently dealt with."

　　"'He crept away, his face sunk upon his breast, like a broken man,while I put out the light and returned to my room.

　　"'For two days after this Brunton was most assiduous in hisattention to his duties. I made no allusion to what had passed andwaited with some curiosity to see how he would cover his disgrace.On the third morning, however, he did not appear, as was his custom,after breakfast to receive my instructions for the day. As I leftthe dining-room I happened to meet Rachel Howells, the maid. I havetold you that she had only recently recovered from an illness andwas looking so wretchedly pale and wan that I remonstrated with herfor being at work.

　　"'"You should be in bed," I said. "Come back to your duties when youare stronger."

　　"'She looked at me with so strange an expression that I began tosuspect that her brain was affected.

　　"'"I am strong enough, Mr. Musgrave," said she.

　　"'"We will see what the doctor says," I answered. "You must stopwork now, and when you go downstairs just say that I wish to seeBrunton."

　　"'"The butler is gone," said she.

　　"'"Gone! Gone where?"

　　"'"He is gone. No one has seen him. He is not in his room. Oh,yes, he is gone, he is gone!" She fell back against the wall withshriek after shriek of laughter, while I, horrified at this suddenhysterical attack, rushed to the bell to summon help. The girl wastaken to her room, still screaming and sobbing, while I made inquiriesabout Brunton. There was no doubt about it that he had disappeared.His bed had not been slept in, he had been seen by no one since he hadretired to his room the night before, and yet it was difficult tosee how he could have left the house, as both windows and doors werefound to be fastened in the morning. His clothes, his watch, andeven his money were in his room, but the black suit which he usuallywore was missing. His slippers, too, were gone, but his boots wereleft behind. Where then could butler Brunton have gone in the nightand what could have become of him now?

　　"'Of course we searched the house from cellar to garret, but therewas no trace of him. It is, as I have said, a labyrinth of an oldhouse, especially the original wing, which is now practicallyuninhabited; but we ransacked every room and cellar withoutdiscovering the least sign of the missing man. It was incredible to methat he could have gone away leaving all his property behind him,and yet where could he be? I called in the local police, but withoutsuccess. Rain had fallen on the night before, and we examined the lawnand the paths all round the house, but in vain. Matters were in thisstate, when a new development quite drew our attention away from theoriginal mystery.

　　"'For two days Rachel Howells had been so ill, sometimesdelirious, sometimes hysterical, that a nurse had been employed to situp with her at night. On the third night after Brunton'sdisappearance, the nurse, finding her patient sleeping nicely, haddropped into a nap in the armchair, when she woke in the early morningto find the bed empty, the window open, and no signs of the invalid. Iwas instantly aroused, and, with the two footmen, started off atonce in search of the missing girl. It was not difficult to tell thedirection which she had taken, for, starting from under her window, wecould follow her footmarks easily across the lawn to the edge of themere, where they vanished close to the gravel path which leads outof the grounds. The lake there is eight feet deep, and you can imagineour feelings when we saw that the trail of the poor demented girl cameto an end at the edge of it.

　　"'Of course, we had the drags at once and set to work to recover theremains, but no trace of the body could we find. On the other hand, webrought to the surface an object of a most unexpected kind. It was alinen bag which contained within it a mass of old rusted anddiscoloured metal and several dull-coloured pieces of pebble or glass.This strange find was all that we could get from the mere, and,although we made every possible search and inquiry yesterday, weknow nothing of the fate either of Rachel Howells or of RichardBrunton. The county police are at their wit's end, and I have comeup to you as a last resource.'

　　"You can imagine, Watson, with what eagerness I listened to thisextraordinary sequence of events, and endeavoured to piece themtogether, and to devise some common thread upon which they might allhang. The butler was gone. The maid was gone. The maid had loved thebutler, but had afterwards had cause to hate him. She was of Welshblood, fiery and passionate. She had been terribly excited immediatelyafter his disappearance. She had flung into the lake a bagcontaining some curious contents. These were all factors which hadto be taken into consideration, and yet none of them got quite tothe heart of the matter. What was the starting-point of this chainof events? There lay the end of this tangled line.

　　"'I must see that paper, Musgrave,' said I, 'which this butler ofyours thought it worth his while to consult, even at the risk of theloss of his place.'

　　"'It is rather an absurd business, this ritual of ours,' heanswered. 'But it has at least the saving grace of antiquity to excuseit. I have a copy of the questions and answers here if you care to runyour eye over them.'

　　"He handed me the very paper which I have here, Watson, and thisis the strange catechism to which each Musgrave had to submit whenhe came to man's estate. I will read you the questions and answersas they stand.

　　"'Whose was it?'

　　"'His who is gone.'

　　"'Who shall have

　　"'He who will come.'

　　"'Where was the sun?'

　　"'Over the oak.'

　　"'Where was the shadow?'

　　"'Under the elm.'

　　"'How was it stepped?'

　　"'North by ten and by ten, east by five and by five, south by twoand by two, west by one and by one, and so under.'

　　"'What shall we give for it?'

　　"'All that is ours.'

　　"'Why should we give it?'

　　"'For the sake of the trust.'

　　"'The original has no date, but is in the spelling of the middleof the seventeenth century,' remarked Musgrave. 'I am afraid, however,that it can be of little help to you in solving this mystery.'"'At least,' said I, 'it gives us another mystery, and one whichis even more interesting than the first. It may be that the solutionof the one may prove to be the solution of the other. You willexcuse me, Musgrave, if I say that your butler appears to me to havebeen a very clever man, and to have had a clearer insight than tengenerations of his masters.'

　　"'I hardly follow you,' said Musgrave. 'The paper seems to me tobe of no practical importance.'

　　"'But to me it seems immensely practical, and I fancy that Bruntontook the same view. He had probably seen it before that night on whichyou caught him.'

　　"'It is very possible. We took no pains to hide it.'

　　"'He simply wished, I should imagine, to refresh his memory uponthat last occasion. He had, as I understand, some sort of map or chartwhich he was comparing with the manuscript, and which he thrust intohis pocket when you appeared.'

　　"'That is true. But what could he have to do with this old familycustom of ours, and what does this rigimarole mean?'

　　"'I don't think that we should have much difficulty in determiningthat,' said I; 'with your permission we will take the first train downto Sussex and go a little more deeply into the matter upon the spot.'"The same afternoon saw us both at Hurlstone. Possibly you have seenpictures and read descriptions of the famous old building, so I willconfine my account of it to saying that it is built in the shape of anL, the long arm being the more modern portion, and the shorter theancient nucleus from which the other has developed. Over the low,heavy-lintelled door, in the centre of this old part, is chiselled thedate, 1607, but experts are agreed that the beams and stonework arereally much older than this. The enormously thick walls and tinywindows of this part had in the last century driven the family intobuilding the new wing, and the old one was used now as a storehouseand a cellar, when it was used at all. A splendid park with fine oldtimber surrounds the house, and the lake, to which my client hadreferred, lay close to the avenue, about two hundred yards from thebuilding.

　　"I was already firmly convinced, Watson, that there were not threeseparate mysteries here, but one only, and that if I could read theMusgrave Ritual aright I should hold in my hand the clue which wouldlead me to the truth concerning both the butler Brunton and the maidHowells. To that then I turned all my energies. Why should thisservant be so anxious to master this old formula? Evidently because hesaw something in it which had escaped all those generations of countrysquires, and from which he expected some personal advantage. Whatwas it then, and how had it affected his fate?

　　"It was perfectly obvious to me, on reading the Ritual, that themeasurements must refer to some spot to which the rest of the documentalluded, and that if we could find that spot we should be in a fairway towards finding what the secret was which the old Musgraves hadthought it necessary to embalm in so curious a fashion. There were twoguides given us to start with, an oak and an elm. As to the oakthere could be no question at all. Right in front of the house, uponthe lefthand side of the drive, there stood a patriarch among oaks,one of the most magnificent trees that I have ever seen."'That was there when your Ritual was drawn up,' said I as wedrove past it.

　　"'It was there at the Norman Conquest in all probability,' heanswered. 'It has a girth of twenty-three feet.'

　　"Here was one of my fixed points secured.

　　"'Have you any old elms?' I asked.

　　"'There used to be a very old one over yonder, but it was struckby lightning ten years ago, and we cut down the stump.'"'You can see where it used to be?'

　　"`Oh yes.'

　　"`There are no other elms?'

　　"'No old ones, but plenty of beeches.'

　　"'I should like to see where it grew.'

　　"We had driven up in a dog-cart, and my client led me away atonce, without our entering the house, to the scar on the lawn wherethe elm had stood. It was nearly midway between the oak and the house.My investigation seemed to be progressing.

　　"'I suppose it is impossible to find out how high the elm was?' Iasked.

　　"'I can give you it at once. It was sixty-four feet.'

　　"'How do you come to know it?' I asked in surprise.

　　"'When my old tutor used to give me an exercise in trigonometry,it always took the shape of measuring heights. When I was a lad Iworked out every tree and building in the estate.'

　　"This was an unexpected piece of luck. My data were coming morequickly than I could have reasonably hoped.

　　"'Tell me,' I asked, 'did your butler ever ask you such a question?'"Reginald Musgrave looked at me in astonishment. 'Now that youcall it to my mind,' he answered, 'Brunton did ask me about the heightof the tree some months ago in connection with some little argumentwith the groom.'

　　"This was excellent news, Watson, for it showed me that I was on theright road. I looked up at the sun. It was low in the heavens, and Icalculated that in less than an hour it would lie just above thetopmost branches of the old oak. One condition mentioned in the Ritualwould then be fulfilled. And the shadow of the elm must mean thefarther end of the shadow, otherwise the trunk would have beenchosen as the guide. I had, then, to find where the far end of theshadow would fall when the sun was just clear of the oak.""That must have been difficult, Holmes, when the elm was no longerthere."

　　"Well, at least I knew that if Brunton could do it, I could also.Besides, there was no real difficulty. I went with Musgrave to hisstudy and whittled myself this peg, to which I tied this long stringwith a knot at each yard. Then I took two lengths of a fishing-rod,which came to just six feet, and I went back with my client to wherethe elm had been. The sun was just grazing the top of the oak. Ifastened the rod on end, marked out the direction of the shadow, andmeasured it. It was nine feet in length.

　　"Of course the calculation now was a simple one. If a rod of sixfeet threw a shadow of nine, a tree of sixty-four feet would throw oneof ninety-six, and the line of the one would of course be the lineof the other. I measured out the distance, which brought me almostto the wall of the house, and I thrust a peg into the spot. You canimagine my exultation, Watson, when within two inches of my peg Isaw a conical depression in the ground. I knew that it was the markmade by Brunton in his measurements, and that I was still upon histrail.

　　"From this starting-point I proceeded to step, having first takenthe cardinal points by my pocket-compass. Ten steps with each foottook me along parallel with the wall of the house, and again Imarked my spot with a peg. Then I carefully paced off five to the eastand two to the south. It brought me to the very threshold of the olddoor. Two steps to the west meant now that I was to go two pacesdown the stone-flagged passage, and this was the place indicated bythe Ritual.

　　"Never have I felt such a cold chill of disappointment, Watson.For a moment it seemed to me that there must be some radical mistakein my calculations. The setting sun shone full upon the passage floor,and I could see that the old, foot-worn gray stones with which itwas paved were firmly cemented together, and had certainly not beenmoved for many a long year. Brunton had not been at work here. Itapped upon the floor, but it sounded the same all over, and there wasno sign of any crack or crevice. But fortunately, Musgrave, who hadbegun to appreciate the meaning of my proceedings, and who was nowas excited as myself, took out his manuscript to check mycalculations.

　　"'And under,' he cried. 'You have omitted the and under.'"I had thought that it meant that we were to dig, but now, ofcourse, I saw at once that I was wrong. 'There is a cedar under thisthen?' I cried.

　　"'Yes, and as old as the house. Down here, through this door.'"We went down a winding stone stair, and my companion, striking amatch, lit a large lantern which stood on a barrel in the corner. Inan instant it was obvious that we had at last come upon the trueplace, and that we had not been the only people to visit the spotrecently.

　　"It had been used for the storage of wood, but the billets, whichhad evidently been littered over the floor, were now piled at thesides, so as to leave a clear space in the middle. In this space lay alarge and heavy flagstone with a rusted iron ring in the centre towhich a thick shepherd's-check muffler was attached.

　　"'By Jove!' cried my client. 'That's Brunton's muffler. I haveseen it on him and could swear to it. What has the villain beendoing here?'

　　"At my suggestion a couple of the county police were summoned tobe present, and I then endeavoured to raise the stone by pulling onthe cravat. I could only move it slightly, and it was with the aidof one of the constables that I succeeded at last in carrying it toone side. A black hole yawned beneath into which we all peered,while Musgrave, kneeling at the side, pushed down the lantern."A small chamber about seven feet deep and four feet square lay opento us. At one side of this was a squat, brass-bound wooden box, thelid of which was hinged upward, with this curious old-fashioned keyprojecting from the lock. It was furred outside by a thick layer ofdust, and damp and worms had eaten through the wood, so that a crop oflivid fungi was growing on the inside of it. Several discs of metal,old coins apparently, such as I hold here, were scattered over thebottom of the box, but it contained nothing else.

　　"At the moment, however, we had no thought for the old chest, forour eyes were riveted upon that which crouched beside it. It was thefigure of a man, clad in a suit of black, who squatted down upon hishams with his forehead sunk upon the edge of the box and his twoarms thrown out on each side of it. The attitude had drawn all thestagnant blood to the face, and no man could have recognized thatdistorted liver-coloured countenance; but his height, his dress, andhis hair were all sufficient to show my client, when we had drawnthe body up, that it was indeed his missing butler. He had been deadsome days, but there was no wound or bruise upon his person to showhow he had met his dreadful end. When his body had been carried fromthe cellar we found ourselves still confronted with a problem whichwas almost as formidable as that with which we had started."I confess that so far, Watson, I had been disappointed in myinvestigation. I had reckoned upon solving the matter when once Ihad found the place referred to in the Ritual; but now I was there,and was apparently as far as ever from knowing what it was which thefamily had concealed with such elaborate precautions. It is truethat I had thrown a light upon the fate of Brunton, but now I had toascertain how that fate had come upon him, and what part had beenplayed in the matter by the woman who had disappeared. I sat down upona keg in the corner and thought the whole matter carefully over."You know my methods in such cases, Watson. I put myself in theman's place, and, having first gauged his intelligence, I try toimagine how I should myself have proceeded under the samecircumstances. In this case the matter was simplified by Brunton'sintelligence being quite first-rate, so that it was unnecessary tomake any allowance for the personal equation, as the astronomershave dubbed it. He knew that something valuable was concealed. Hehad spotted the place. He found that the stone which covered it wasjust too heavy for a man to move unaided. What would he do next? Hecould not get help from outside, even if he had someone whom hecould trust, without the unbarring of doors and considerable risk ofdetection. It was better, if he could, to have his helpmate inside thehouse. But whom could he ask? This girl had been devoted to him. A manalways finds it hard to realize that he may have finally lost awoman's love, however badly he may have treated her. He would try by afew attentions to make his peace with the girl Howells, and then wouldengage her as his accomplice. Together they would come at night to thecellar, and their united force would suffice to raise the stone. Sofar I could follow their actions as if I had actually seen them."But for two of them, and one a woman, it must have been heavy work,the raising of that stone. A burly Sussex policeman and I had found itno light job. What would they do to assist them? Probably what Ishould have done myself. I rose and examined carefully the differentbillets of wood which were scattered round the floor. Almost at once Icame upon what I expected. One piece, about three feet in length,had a very marked indentation at one end, while several were flattenedat the sides as if they had been compressed by some considerableweight. Evidently, as they had dragged the stone up, they had thrustthe chunks of wood into the chink until at last when the opening waslarge enough to crawl through, they would hold it open by a billetplaced lengthwise, which might very well become indented at thelower end, since the whole weight of the stone would press it downon to the edge of this other slab. So far I was still on safe ground."And now how was I to proceed to reconstruct this midnight drama?Clearly, only one could fit into the hole, and that one was Brunton.The girl must have waited above. Brunton then unlocked the box, handedup the contents presumably-since they were not to be found-andthen-and then what happened?

　　"What smouldering fire of vengeance had suddenly sprung into flamein this passionate Celtic woman's soul when she saw the man who hadwronged, perhaps, far more than we suspected-in her power? Was it achance that the wood had slipped and that the stone had shut Bruntoninto what had become his sepulchre? Had she only been guilty ofsilence as to his fate? Or had some sudden blow from her hand dashedthe support away and sent the slab crashing down into its place? Bethat as it might, I seemed to see that woman's figure stillclutching at her treasure trove and flying wildly up the windingstair, with her ears ringing perhaps with the muffled screams frombehind her and with the drumming of frenzied hands against the slab ofstone which was choking her faithless lover's life out."Here was the secret of her blanched face, her shaken nerves, herpeals of hysterical laughter on the next morning. But what had been inthe box? What had she done with that? Of course, it must have been theold metal and pebbles which my client had dragged from the mere. Shehad thrown them in there at the first opportunity to remove the lasttrace of her crime.

　　"For twenty minutes I had sat motionless, thinking the matter out.Musgrave still stood with a very pale face, swinging his lantern andpeering down into the hole.

　　"'These are coins of Charles the First,' said he, holding out thefew which had been in the box; 'you see we were right in fixing ourdate for the Ritual.'

　　"'We may find something else of Charles the First,' I cried, asthe probable meaning of the first two questions of the Ritual brokesuddenly upon me. 'Let me see the contents of the bag which you fishedfrom the mere.'

　　"We ascended to his study, and he laid the debris before me. I couldunderstand his regarding it as of small importance when I looked atit, for the metal was almost black and the stones lustreless and dull.I rubbed one of them on my sleeve, however, and it glowed afterwardslike a spark in the dark hollow of my hand. The metal work was inthe form of a double ring, but it had been bent and twisted out of itsoriginal shape.

　　"'You must bear in mind,' said I, 'that the royal party made head inEngland even after the death of the king, and that when they at lastfled they probably left many of their most precious sessions buriedbehind them, with the intention of returning for them in more peacefultimes.'

　　"'My ancestor, Sir Ralph Musgrave, was a prominent cavalier andthe righthand man of Charles the Second in his wanderings,' said myfriend.

　　"'Ah, indeed!' I answered. 'Well now, I think that really shouldgive us the last link that we wanted. I must congratulate you oncoming into the possession, though in rather a tragic manner, of arelic which is of great intrinsic value, but of even greaterimportance as a historical curiosity.'

　　"'What is it, then?' he gasped in astonishment.

　　"'It is nothing less than the ancient crown of the kings ofEngland.'

　　"'The crown!'

　　"'Precisely. Consider what the Ritual says. How does it run?"Whose was it?" "His who is gone." That was after the execution ofCharles. Then, "Who shall have it?" "He who will come." That wasCharles the Second, whose advent was already foreseen. There can, Ithink, be no doubt that this battered and shapeless diadem onceencircled the brows of the royal Stuarts.'

　　"'And how came it in the pond?'

　　"'Ah, that is a question that will take some time to answer.' Andwith that I sketched out to him the whole long chain of surmise and ofproof which I had constructed. The twilight had closed in and the moonwas shining brightly in the sky before my narrative was finished."'And how was it then that Charles did not get his crown when hereturned?' asked Musgrave, pushing back the relic into its linen bag."'Ah, there you lay your finger upon the one point which we shallprobably never be able to clear up. It is likely that the Musgrave whoheld the secret died in the interval, and by some oversight leftthis guide to his descendant without explaining the meaning of it.From that day to this it has been handed down from father to son,until at last it came within reach of a man who tore its secret out ofit and lost his life in the venture.'

　　"And that's the story of the Musgrave Ritual, Watson. They havethe crown down at Hurlstone-though they had some legal bother and aconsiderable sum to pay before they were allowed to retain it. I amsure that if you mentioned my name they would be happy to show it toyou. Of the woman nothing was ever heard, and the probability isthat she got away out of England and carried herself and the memory ofher crime to some land beyond the seas."

　　THE END

　　.

　　1893

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE NAVAL TREATY

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　THE NAVAL TREATY

　　The July which immediately succeeded my marriage was madememorable by three cases of interest, in which I had the privilegeof being associated with Sherlock Holmes and of studying hismethods. I find them recorded in my notes under the headings of "TheAdventure of the Second Stain," "The Adventure of the Naval Treaty,"and "The Adventure of the Tired Captain." The first of these, however,deals with interests of such importance and implicates so many ofthe first families in the kingdom that for many years it will beimpossible to make it public. No case, however, in which Holmes wasengaged has ever illustrated the value of his analytical methods soclearly or has impressed those who were associated with him so deeply.I still retain an almost verbatim report of the interview in whichhe demonstrated the true facts of the case to Monsieur Dubugue ofthe Paris police, and Fritz von Waldbaum, the well-known specialist ofDantzig, both of whom had wasted their energies upon what proved to beside-issues. The new century will have come, however, before the storycan be safely told. Meanwhile I pass on to the second on my list,which promised also at one time to be of national importance and wasmarked by several incidents which give it a quite unique character.During my school-days I had been intimately associated with a ladnamed Percy Phelps, who was of much the same age as myself, thoughhe was two classes ahead of me. He was a very brilliant boy andcarried away every prize which the school had to offer, finishinghis exploits by winning a scholarship which sent him on to continuehis triumphant career at Cambridge. He was, I remember, extremely wellconnected, and even when we were all little boys together we knew thathis mother's brother was Lord Holdhurst, the great conservativepolitician. This gaudy relationship did him little good at school.On the contrary, it seemed rather a piquant thing to us to chevy himabout the playground and hit him over the shins with a wicket. Butit was another thing when he came out into the world. I heardvaguely that his abilities and the influences which he commanded hadwon him a good position at the Foreign Office, and then he passedcompletely out of my mind until the following letter recalled hisexistence:

　　Briarbrae, Woking.

　　MY DEAR WATSON:

　　I have no doubt that you can remember "Tadpole" Phelps, who was inthe fifth form when you were in the third. It is possible even thatyou may have heard that through my uncle's influence I obtained a goodappointment at the Foreign Office, and that I was in a situation oftrust and honour until a horrible misfortune came suddenly to blast mycareer.

　　There is no use writing the details of that dreadful event. In theevent of your acceding to my request it is probable that I shallhave to narrate them to you. I have only just recovered from nineweeks of brain-fever and am still exceedingly weak. Do you thinkthat you could bring your friend Mr. Holmes down to see me? I shouldlike to have his opinion of the case, though the authorities assure methat nothing more can be done. Do try to bring him down, and as soonas possible. Every minute seems an hour while I live in this stateof horrible suspense. Assure him that if I have not asked his advicesooner it was not because I did not appreciate his talents, butbecause I have been off my head ever since the blow fell. Now I amclear again, though I dare not think of it too much for fear of arelapse. I am still so weak that I have to write, as you see, bydictating. Do try to bring him.

　　Your old school-fellow,

　　PERCY PHELPS.

　　There was something that touched me as I read this letter, somethingpitiable in the reiterated appeals to bring Holmes. So moved was Ithat even had it been a difficult matter I should have tried it, butof course I knew well that Holmes loved his art, so that he was everas ready to bring his aid as his client could be to receive it. Mywife agreed with me that not a moment should be lost in laying thematter before him, and so within an hour of breakfast-time I foundmyself back once more in the old rooms in Baker Street.Holmes was seated at his side-table clad in his dressing-gown andworking hard over a chemical investigation. A large curved retortwas boiling furiously in the bluish flame of a Bunsen burner, andthe distilled drops were condensing into a two-litre measure. Myfriend hardly glanced up as I entered, and I, seeing that hisinvestigation must be of importance, seated myself in an armchairand waited. He dipped into this bottle or that, drawing out a fewdrops of each with his glass pipette, and finally brought thetest-tube containing a solution over to the table. In his right handhe held a slip of litmus-paper.

　　"You come at a crisis Watson," said he. "If this paper remains blue,all is well. If it turns red, it means a man's life." He dipped itinto the test-tube and it flushed at once into a dull, dirtycrimson. "Hum! I thought as much!" he cried. "I will be at yourservice in an instant, Watson. You will find tobacco in the Persianslipper." He turned to his desk and scribbled off several telegrams,which were handed over to the page-boy. Then he threw himself downinto the chair opposite and drew up his knees until his fingersclasped round his long, thin shins.

　　"A very commonplace little murder," said he. "You've got somethingbetter, I fancy. You are the stormy petrel of crime, Watson. What isit?" I handed him the letter, which he read with the most concentratedattention.

　　"It does not tell us very much, does it?" he remarked as he handedit back to me.

　　"Hardly anything."

　　"And yet the writing is of interest."

　　"But the writing is not his own."

　　"Precisely. It is a woman's."

　　"A man's surely," I cried.

　　"No, a woman's, and a woman of rare character. You see, at thecommencement of an investigation it is something to know that yourclient is in close contact with someone who, for good or evil, hasan exceptional nature. My interest is already awakened in the case. Ifyou are ready we will start at once for Woking and see thisdiplomatist who is in such evil case and the lady to whom hedictates his letters."

　　We were fortunate enough to catch an early train at Waterloo, and ina little under an hour we found ourselves among the fir-woods andthe heather of Woking. Briarbrae proved to be a large detached housestanding in extensive grounds within a few minutes' walk of thestation. On sending in our cards we were shown into an elegantlyappointed drawing-room, where we were joined in a few minutes by arather stout man who received us with much hospitality. His age mayhave been nearer forty than thirty, but his cheeks were so ruddy andhis eyes so merry that he still conveyed the impression of a plump andmischievous boy.

　　"I am so glad that you have come," said he, shaking our hands witheffusion. "Percy has been inquiring for you all morning. Ah, poorold chap, he clings to any straw! His father and his mother asked meto see you, for the mere mention of the subject is very painful tothem."

　　"We have had no details yet," observed Holmes. "I perceive thatyou are not yourself a member of the family."

　　Our acquaintance looked surprised, and then, glancing down, he beganto laugh.

　　"Of course you saw the J H monogram on my locket," said he. "For amoment I thought you had done something clever. Joseph Harrison ismy name, and as Percy is to marry my sister Annie I shall at leastbe a relation by marriage. You will find my sister in his room, forshe has nursed him hand and foot this two months back. Perhaps we'dbetter go in at once, for I know how impatient he is."

　　The chamber into which we were shown was on the same floor as thedrawing-room. It was furnished partly as a sitting and partly as abedroom, with flowers arranged daintily in every nook and corner. Ayoung man, very pale and worn was lying upon a sofa near the openwindow, through which came the rich scent of the garden and thebalmy summer air. A woman was sitting beside him, who rose as weentered.

　　"Shall I leave, Percy?" she asked.

　　He clutched her hand to detain her. "How are you, Watson?' said hecordially. "I should never have known you under that moustache, andI daresay you would not be prepared to swear to me. This I presumeis your celebrated friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes?"

　　I introduced him in a few words, and we both sat down. The stoutyoung man had left us, but his sister still remained with her handin that of the invalid. She was a smug-looking woman, a little shortand thick for symmetry, but with a beautiful olive complexion,large, dark, Italian eyes, and a wealth of deep black hair. Her richtints made the white face of her companion the more worn and haggardby the contrast.

　　"I won't waste your time," said he, raising himself upon the sofa."I'll plunge into the matter without further preamble. I was a happyand successful man, Mr. Holmes, and on the eve of being married,when a sudden and dreadful misfortune wrecked all my prospects inlife.

　　"I was, as Watson may have told you, in the Foreign Office, andthrough the influence of my uncle, Lord Holdhurst, I rose rapidly to aresponsible position. When my uncle became foreign minister in thisadministration he gave me several missions of trust, and as I alwaysbrought them to a successful conclusion, he came at last to have theutmost confidence in my ability and tact.

　　"Nearly ten weeks ago-to be more accurate, on the twenty-third ofMay-he called me into his private room, and, after complimenting me onthe good work which I had done, he informed me that he had a newcommission of trust for me to execute.

　　"'This,' said he, taking a gray roll of paper from his bureau, 'isthe original of that secret treaty between England and Italy of which,I regret to say, some rumours have already got into the publicpress. It is of enormous importance that nothing further should leakout. The French or the Russian embassy would pay an immense sum tolearn the contents of these papers. They should not leave my bureauwere it not that it is absolutely necessary to have them copied. Youhave a desk in your office?'

　　"'Yes, sir.'

　　"'Then take the treaty and lock it up there. I shall give directionsthat you may remain behind when the others go, so that you may copy itat your leisure without fear of being overlooked. When you havefinished, relock both the original and the draft in the desk, and handthem over to me personally to-morrow morning.'

　　"'I took the papers and-'

　　"Excuse me an instant," said Holmes. "Were you alone during thisconversation?"

　　"Absolutely."

　　"'In a large room?"

　　"Thirty feet each way."

　　"In the centre?"

　　"Yes, about it."

　　"And speaking low?"

　　"My uncle's voice is always remarkably low. I hardly spoke at all.""Thank you," said Holmes, shutting his eyes; "pray go on.""I did exactly what he indicated and waited until the other clerkshad departed. One of them in my room, Charles Gorot, had somearrears of work to make up, so I left him there and went out todine. When I returned he was gone. I was anxious to hurry my work, forI knew that Joseph-the Mr. Harrison whom you saw just now-was in town,and that he would travel down to Woking by the eleven-o'clock train,and I wanted if possible to catch it.

　　"When I came to examine the treaty I saw at once that it was of suchimportance that my uncle had been guilty of no exaggeration in what hesaid. Without going into details, I may say that it defined theposition of Great Britain towards the Triple Alliance, andforeshadowed the policy which this country would pursue in the eventof the French fleet gaining a complete ascendency over that of Italyin the Mediterranean. The questions treated in it were purely naval.At the end were the signatures of the high dignitaries who hadsigned it. I glanced my eyes over it, and then settled down to my taskof copying.

　　"It was a long document, written in the French language, andcontaining twenty six separate articles. I copied as quickly as Icould, but at nine o'clock I had only done nine articles, and itseemed hopeless for me to attempt to catch my train. I was feelingdrowsy and stupid, partly from my dinner and also from the effectsof a long day's work. A cup of coffee would clear my brain. Acommissionaire remains all night in a little lodge at the foot ofthe stairs and is in the habit of making coffee at his spirit-lamp forany of the officials who may be working overtime. I rang the bell,therefore, to summon him.

　　"To my surprise, it was a woman who answered the summons, a large,coarse faced, elderly woman, in an apron. She explained that she wasthe commissionaire's wife, who did the charing, and I gave her theorder for the coffee.

　　"I wrote two more articles, and then, feeling more drowsy than ever,I rose and walked up and down the room to stretch my legs. My coffeehad not yet come, and I wondered what the cause of the delay could be.Opening the door, I started down the corridor to find out. There was astraight passage, dimly lighted, which led from the room in which Ihad been working, and was the only exit from it. It ended in a curvingstaircase, with the commissionaire's lodge in the passage at thebottom. Halfway down this staircase is a small landing, with anotherpassage running into it at right angles. This second one leads bymeans of a second small stair to a side door, used by servants, andalso as a short cut by clerks when coming from Charles Street. Here isa rough chart of the place." (See illustration.)

　　"Thank you. I think that I quite follow you," said Sherlock Holmes."It is of the utmost importance that you should notice this point. Iwent down the stairs and into the hall, where I found thecommissionaire fast asleep in his box, with the kettle boilingfuriously upon the spirit-lamp. I took off the kettle and blew out thelamp, for the water was spurting over the floor. Then I put out myhand and was about to shake the man, who was still sleeping soundly,when a bell over his head rang loudly, and he woke with a start."'Mr. Phelps, sir!' said he, looking at me in bewilderment."'I came down to see if my coffee was ready.'

　　"'I was boiling the kettle when I fell asleep, sir.' He looked at meand then up at the still quivering bell with an ever-growingastonishment upon his face.

　　"'If you was here, sir, then who rang the bell?' he asked."'The bell!' I cried. 'What bell is it?'

　　"'It's the bell of the room you were working in.'

　　"A cold hand seemed to close round my heart. Someone, then, was inthat room where my precious treaty lay upon the table. I ranfrantically up the stair and along the passage. There was no one inthe corridors, Mr. Holmes. There was no one in the room. All wasexactly as I left it, save only that the papers which had beencommitted to my care had been taken from the desk on which they lay.The copy was there, and the original was gone."

　　Holmes sat up in his chair and rubbed his hands. I could see thatthe problem was entirely to his heart. "Pray, what did you do then?"he murmured.

　　"I recognized in an instant that the thief must have come up thestairs from the side door. Of course I must have met him if he hadcome the other way."

　　"You were satisfied that he could not have been concealed in theroom all the time, or in the corridor which you have just describedas dimly lighted?"

　　"It is absolutely impossible. A rat could not conceal himself eitherin the room or the corridor. There is no cover at all.""Thank you. Pray proceed."

　　"The commissionaire, seeing by my pale face that something was to befeared, had followed me upstairs. Now we both rushed along thecorridor and down the steep steps which led to Charles Street. Thedoor at the bottom was closed but unlocked. We flung it open andrushed out. I can distinctly remember that as we did so there camethree chimes from a neighbouring clock. It was a quarter to ten.""That is of enormous importance," said Holmes, making a note uponhis shirt-cuff.

　　"The night was very dark, and a thin, warm rain was falling. Therewas no one in Charles Street, but a great traffic was going on, asusual, in Whitehall, at the extremity. We rushed along the pavement,bare-headed as we were, and at the far corner we found a policemanstanding.

　　"'A robbery has been committed,' I gasped. 'A document of immensevalue has been stolen from the Foreign Office. Has anyone passedthis way?'

　　"'I have been standing here for a quarter of an hour, sir,' said he,'only one person has passed during that time-a woman, tall andelderly, with a Paisley shawl.'

　　"'Ah, that is only my wife,' cried the commissionaire; 'has no oneelse passed?'

　　"'No one.'

　　"'Then it must be the other way that the thief took,' cried thefellow, tugging at my sleeve.

　　"But I was not satisfied, and the attempts which he made to drawme away increased my suspicions.

　　"'Which way did the woman go?' I cried.

　　"'I don't know, sir. I noticed her pass, but I had no special reasonfor watching her. She seemed to be in a hurry.'

　　"'How long ago was it?'

　　"'Oh, not very many minutes.'

　　"'Within the last five?'

　　"'Well, it could not have been more than five.'

　　"'You're only wasting your time, sir, and every minute now is ofimportance,' cried the commissionaire; 'take my word for it that myold woman has nothing to do with it and come down to the other endof the street. Well, if you won't, I will.' And with that he rashedoff in the other direction.

　　"'But I was after him in an instant and caught him by the sleeve."'Where do you live?' said I.

　　"'16 Ivy Lane, Brixton,' he answered. 'But don't let yourself bedrawn away upon a false scent, Mr. Phelps. Come to the other end ofthe street and let us see if we can hear of anything.'

　　"Nothing was to be lost by following his advice. With thepoliceman we both hurried down, but only to find the street full oftraffic, many people coming and going, but all only too eager to getto a place of safety upon so wet a night. There was no lounger whocould tell us who had passed.

　　"Then we returned to the office and searched the stairs and thepassage without result. The corridor which led to the room was laiddown with a kind of creamy linoleum which shows an impression veryeasily. We examined it very carefully, but found no outline of anyfootmark."

　　"Had it been raining all evening?"

　　"Since about seven."

　　"How is it, then, that the woman who came into the room about nineleft no traces with her muddy boots?"

　　"I am glad you raised the point. It occurred to me at the time.The charwomen are in the habit of taking off their boots at thecommissionaire's office, and putting on list slippers.""That is very clear. There were no marks then, though the nightwas a wet one? The chain of events is certainly one of extraordinaryinterest. What did you do next?"

　　"We examined the room also. There is no possibility of a secretdoor, and the windows are quite thirty feet from the ground. Both ofthem were fastened on the inside. The carpet prevents anypossibility of a trapdoor, and the ceiling is of the ordinarywhitewashed kind. I will pledge my life that whoever stole my paperscould only have come through the door."

　　"How about the fireplace?"

　　"They use none. There is a stove. The bell-rope hangs from thewire just to the right of my desk. Whoever rang it must have comeright up to the desk to do it. But why should any criminal wish toring the bell? It is a most insoluble mystery."

　　"Certainly the incident was unusual. What were your next steps?You examined the room, I presume, to see if the intruder had leftany traces-any cigar-end or dropped glove or hairpin or other trifle?""There was nothing of the sort."

　　"No smell?"

　　"Well, we never thought of that."

　　"Ah, a scent of tobacco would have been worth a great deal to usin such an investigation."

　　"I never smoke myself, so I think I should have observed it if therehad been any smell of tobacco. There was absolutely no clue of anykind. The only tangible fact was that the commissionaire's wife-Mrs.Tangey was the name-had hurried out of the place. He could give noexplanation save that it was about the time when the woman always wenthome. The policeman and I agreed that our best plan would be toseize the woman before she could get rid of the papers, presuming thatshe had them.

　　"The alarm had reached Scotland Yard by this time, and Mr. Forbes,the detective, came round at once and took up the case with a greatdeal of energy. We hired a hansom, and in half an hour we were atthe address which had been given to us. A young woman opened the door,who proved to be Mrs. Tangey's eldest daughter. Her mother had notcome back yet, and we were shown into the front room to wait."About ten minutes later a knock came at the door, and here wemade the one serious mistake for which I blame myself. Instead ofopening the door ourselves, we allowed the girl to do so. We heard hersay, 'Mother, there are two men in the house waiting to see you,'and an instant afterwards we heard the patter of feet rushing down thepassage. Forbes flung open the door, and we both ran into the backroom or kitchen, but the woman had got there before us. She staredat us with defiant eyes, and then, suddenly recognizing me, anexpression of absolute astonishment came over her face."'Why, if it isn't Mr. Phelps, of the office!' she cried."'Come, come, who did you think we were when you ran away fromus?' asked my companion.

　　"'I thought you were the brokers,' said she, 'we have had sometrouble with a tradesman.'

　　"'That's not quite good enough,' answered Forbes. 'We have reason tobelieve that you have taken a paper of importance from the ForeignOffice, and that you ran in here to dispose of it. You must comeback with us to Scotland Yard to be searched.'

　　"It was in vain that she protested and resisted. A four-wheelerwas brought, and we all three drove back in it. We had first made anexamination of the kitchen, and especially of the kitchen fire, to seewhether she might have made away with the papers during the instantthat she was alone. There were no signs, however, of any ashes orscraps. When we reached Scotland Yard she was handed over at once tothe female searcher. I waited in an agony of suspense until she cameback with her report. There were no signs of the papers."Then for the first time the horror of my situation came in its fullforce. Hitherto I had been acting, and action had numbed thought. Ihad been so confident of regaining the treaty at once that I had notdared to think of what would be the consequence if I failed to doso. But now there was nothing more to be done, and I had leisure torealize my position. It was horrible. Watson there would tell you thatI was a nervous, sensitive boy at school. It is my nature. I thoughtof my uncle and of his colleagues in the Cabinet, of the shame which Ihad brought upon him, upon myself, upon everyone connected with me.What though I was the victim of an extraordinary accident? Noallowance is made for accidents where diplomatic interests are atstake. I was ruined, shamefully, hopelessly ruined. I don't knowwhat I did. I fancy I must have made a scene. I have a dimrecollection of a group of officials who crowded round me,endeavouring to soothe me. One of them drove down with me to Waterloo,and saw me into the Woking train. I believe that he would have comeall the way had it not been that Dr. Ferrier, who lives near me, wasgoing down by that very train. The doctor most kindly took charge ofme, and it was well he did so, for I had a fit in the station, andbefore we reached home I was practically a raving maniac."You can imagine the state of things here when they were roused fromtheir beds by the doctor's ringing and found me in this condition.Poor Annie here and my mother were broken-hearted. Dr. Ferrier hadjust heard enough from the detective at the station to be able to givean idea of what had happened, and his story did not mend matters. Itwas evident to all that I was in for a long illness, so Joseph wasbundled out of this cheery bedroom, and it was turned into a sick-roomfor me. Here I have lain, Mr. Holmes, for over nine weeks,unconscious, and raving with brain-fever. If it had not been forMiss Harrison here and for the doctor's care, I should not be speakingto you now. She has nursed me by day and a hired nurse has lookedafter me by night, for in my mad fits I was capable of anything.Slowly my reason has cleared, but it is only during the last threedays that my memory has quite returned. Sometimes I wish that it neverhad. The first thing that I did was to wire to Mr. Forbes, who had thecase in hand. He came out, and assures me that, though everythinghas been done, no trace of a clue has been discovered. Thecommissionaire and his wife have been examined in every way withoutany light being thrown upon the matter. The suspicions of the policethen rested upon young Gorot, who, as you may remember, stayedover-time in the office that night. His remaining behind and hisFrench name were really the only two points which could suggestsuspicion; but, as a matter of fact, I did not begin work until he hadgone, and his people are of Huguenot extraction, but as English insympathy and tradition as you and I are. Nothing was found toimplicate him in any way, and there the matter dropped. I turn to you,Mr. Holmes, as absolutely my last hope. If you fail me, then my honouras well as my position are forever forfeited."

　　The invalid sank back upon his cushions, tired out by this longrecital, while his nurse poured him out a glass of some stimulatingmedicine. Holmes sat silently, with his head thrown back and hiseyes closed, in an attitude which might seem listless to a stranger,but which I knew betokened the most intense self-absorption."Your statement has been so explicit," said he at last, "that youhave really left me very few questions to ask. There is one of thevery utmost importance, however. Did you tell anyone that you had thisspecial task to perform?"

　　"No one."

　　"Not Miss Harrison here, for example?"

　　"No. I had not been back to Woking between getting the order andexecuting the commission."

　　"And none of your people had by chance been to see you?""None."

　　"Did any of them know their way about in the office?"

　　"Oh, yes, all of them had been shown over it."

　　"Still, of course, if you said nothing to anyone about the treatythese inquiries are irrelevant."

　　"I said nothing."

　　"Do you know anything of the commissionaire?"

　　"Nothing except that he is an old soldier."

　　"What regiment?"

　　"Oh, I have heard-Coldstream Guards."

　　"Thank you. I have no doubt I can get details from Forbes. Theauthorities are excellent at amassing facts, though they do not alwaysuse them to advantage. What a lovely thing a rose is!"

　　He walked past the couch to the open window and held up the droopingstalk of a moss-rose, looking down at the dainty blend of crimsonand green. It was a new phase of his character to me, for I hadnever before seen him show any keen interest in natural objects."There is nothing in which deduction is so necessary as inreligion," said he, leaning with his back against the shutters. "Itcan be built up as an exact science by the reasoner. Our highestassurance of the goodness of Providence seems to me to rest in theflowers. All other things, our powers, our desires, our food, areall really necessary for our existence in the first instance. But thisrose is an extra. Its smell and its colour are an embellishment oflife, not a condition of it. It is only goodness which gives extras,and so I say again that we have much to hope from the flowers."Percy Phelps and his nurse looked at Holmes during thisdemonstration with surprise and a good deal of disappointmentwritten upon their faces. He had fallen into a reverie, with themoss-rose between his fingers. It had lasted some minutes before theyoung lady broke in upon it.

　　"Do you see any prospect of solving this mystery, Mr. Holmes?" sheasked with a touch of asperity in her voice.

　　"Oh, the mystery!" he answered, coming back with a start to therealities of life. "Well, it would be absurd to deny that the caseis a very abstruse and complicated one, but I can promise you that Iwill look into the matter and let you know any points which may strikeme."

　　"Do you see any clue?"

　　"You have furnished me with seven, but of course I must test thembefore I can pronounce upon their value."

　　"You suspect someone?"

　　"I suspect myself."

　　"What!"

　　"Of coming to conclusions too rapidly."

　　"Then go to London and test your conclusions."

　　"Your advice is very excellent, Miss Harrison," said Holmes, rising."I think, Watson, we cannot do better. Do not allow yourself toindulge in false hopes, Mr. Phelps. The affair is a very tangled one.""I shall be in a fever until I see you again," cried thediplomatist.

　　"Well, I'll come out by the same train to-morrow, though it's morethan likely that my report will be a negative one."

　　"God bless you for promising to come," cried our client. "It givesme fresh life to know that something is being done. By the way, I havehad a letter from Lord Holdhurst."

　　"Ha! what did he say?'

　　"He was cold, but not harsh. I dare say my severe illnessprevented him from being that. He repeated that the matter was ofthe utmost importance, and added that no steps would be taken about myfuture-by which he means, of course, my dismissal-until my healthwas restored and I had an opportunity of repairing my misfortune.""Well, that was reasonable and considerate," said Holmes. "Come,Watson, for we have a good day's work before us in town."Mr. Joseph Harrison drove us down to the station, and we were soonwhirling up in a Portsmouth train. Holmes was sunk in profound thoughtand hardly opened his mouth until we had passed Clapham Junction."It's a very cheery thing to come into London by any of theselines which run high and allow you to look down upon the houses likethis."

　　I thought he was joking, for the view was sordid enough, but he soonexplained himself.

　　"Look at those big, isolated clumps of buildings rising up above theslates, like brick islands in a lead-coloured sea."

　　"The board-schools."

　　"Light-houses, my boy! Beacons of the future! Capsules with hundredsof bright little seeds in each, out of which will spring the wiser,better England of the future. I suppose that man Phelps does notdrink?"

　　"I should not think so."

　　"Nor should I, but we are bound to take every possibility intoaccount. The poor devil has certainly got himself into very deepwater, and it's a question whether we shall ever be able to get himashore. What do you think of Miss Harrison?"

　　"A girl of strong character."

　　"Yes, but she is a good sort, or I am mistaken. She and herbrother are the only children of an iron-master somewhere upNorthumberland way. He got engaged to her when travelling last winter,and she came down to be introduced to his people, with her brotheras escort. Then came the smash, and she stayed on to nurse herlover, while brother Joseph, finding himself pretty snug, stayed on,too. I've been making a few independent inquiries, you see. But to-daymust be a day of inquiries."

　　"My practice-" I began.

　　"Oh, if you find your own cases more interesting than mine-" saidHolmes with some asperity.

　　"I was going to say that my practice could get along very well for aday or two, since it is the slackest time in the year.""Excellent," said he, recovering his good-humour. "Then we'll lookinto this matter together. I think that we should begin by seeingForbes. He can probably tell us all the details we want until weknow from what side the case is to be approached."

　　"You said you had a clue?"

　　"Well, we have several, but we can only test their value byfurther inquiry. The most difficult crime to track is the one which ispurposeless. Now this is not purposeless. Who is it who profits by it?There is the French ambassador, there is the Russian, there is whoevermight sell it to either of these, and there is Lord Holdhurst.""Lord Holdhurst!"

　　"Well, it is just conceivable that a statesman might find himself ina position where he was not sorry to have such a document accidentallydestroyed."

　　"Not a statesman with the honourable record of Lord Holdhurst?""It is a possibility and we cannot afford to disregard it. Weshall see the noble lord to-day and find out if he can tell usanything. Meanwhile I have already set inquiries on foot.""Already?"

　　"Yes, I sent wires from Woking station to every evening paper inLondon. This advertisement will appear in each of them."He handed over a sheet torn from a notebook. On it was scribbled inpencil:

　　L10 reward. The number of the cab which dropped a fare at or aboutthe door of the Foreign Office in Charles Street at quarter to tenin the evening of May 23rd. Apply 221B, Baker Street.

　　"You are confident that the thief came in a cab?"

　　"If not, there is no harm done. But if Mr. Phelps is correct instating that there is no hiding-place either in the room or thecorridors, then the person must have come from outside. If he camefrom outside on so wet a night, and yet left no trace of damp upon thelinoleum, which was examined within a few minutes of his passing, thenit is exceedingly probable that he came in a cab. Yes, I think that wemay safely deduce a cab."

　　"It sounds plausible."

　　"That is one of the clues of which I spoke. It may lead us tosomething. And then, of course, there is the bell-which is the mostdistinctive feature of the case. Why should the bell ring? Was itthe thief who did it out of bravado? Or was it someone who was withthe thief who did it in order to prevent the crime? Or was it anaccident? Or was it-?" He sank back into the state of intense andsilent thought from which he had emerged; but it seemed to me,accustomed as I was to his every mood, that some new possibility haddawned suddenly upon him.

　　It was twenty past three when we reached our terminus, and after ahasty luncheon at the buffet we pushed on at once to Scotland Yard.Holmes had already wired to Forbes, and we found him waiting toreceive us-a small, foxy man with a sharp but by no means amiableexpression. He was decidedly frigid in his manner to us, especiallywhen he heard the errand upon which we had come.

　　"I've heard of your methods before now, Mr. Holmes," said he tartly."You are ready enough to use all the information that the police canlay at your disposal, and then you try to finish the case yourself andbring discredit on them."

　　"On the contrary," said Holmes, "out of my last fifty-three cases myname has only appeared in four, and the police have had all the creditin forty-nine. I don't blame you for not knowing this, for you areyoung and inexperienced, but if you wish to get on in your newduties you will work with me and not against me."

　　"I'd be very glad of a hint or two," said the detective, changinghis manner. "I've certainly had no credit from the case so far.""What steps have you taken?"

　　"Tangey, the commissionaire, has been shadowed. He left the Guardswith a good character, and we can find nothing against him. His wifeis a bad lot, though. I fancy she knows more about this than appears.""Have you shadowed her?"

　　"We have set one of our women on to her. Mrs. Tangey drinks, and ourwoman has been with her twice when she was well on, but she couldget nothing out of her."

　　"I understand that they have had brokers in the house?""Yes, but they were paid off."

　　"Where did the money come from?"

　　"That was all right. His pension was due. They have not shown anysign of being in funds."

　　"What explanation did she give of having answered the bell whenMr. Phelps rang for the coffee?"

　　"She said that her husband was very tired and she wished torelieve him."

　　"Well, certainly that would agree with his being found a littlelater asleep in his chair. There is nothing against them then butthe woman's character. Did you ask her why she hurried away thatnight? Her haste attracted the attention of the police constable.""She was later than usual and wanted to get home."

　　"Did you point out to her that you and Mr. Phelps, who started atleast twenty minutes after her, got home before her?"

　　"She explains that by the difference between a bus and a hansom.""Did she make it clear why, on reaching her house, she ran intothe back kitchen?"

　　"Because she had the money there with which to pay off the brokers.""She has at least an answer for everything. Did you ask herwhether in leaving she met anyone or saw anyone loitering aboutCharles Street?"

　　"She saw no one but the constable."

　　"Well, you seem to have cross-examined her pretty thoroughly. Whatelse have you done?"

　　"The clerk Gorot has been shadowed all these nine weeks, but withoutresult. We can show nothing against him."

　　"Anything else?"

　　"Well, we have nothing else to go upon-no evidence of any kind.""Have you formed any theory about how that bell rang?"

　　"Well, I must confess that it beats me. It was a cool hand,whoever it was, to go and give the alarm like that."

　　"Yes, it was a queer thing to do. Many thanks to you for what youhave told me. If I can put the man into your hands you shall hear fromme. Come along Watson."

　　"Where are we going to now?" I asked as we left the office."We are now going to interview Lord Holdhurst, the cabinetminister and future premier of England."

　　We were fortunate in finding that Lord Holdhurst was still in hischambers in Downing Street, and on Holmes sending in his card wewere instantly shown up. The statesman received us with thatold-fashioned courtesy for which he is remarkable and seated us on thetwo luxuriant lounges on either side of the fireplace. Standing on therug between us, with his slight, tall figure, his sharp features,thoughtful face, and curling hair prematurely tinged with gray, heseemed to represent that not too common type, a nobleman who is intruth noble.

　　"Your name is very familiar to me, Mr. Holmes," said he, smiling."And of course I cannot pretend to be ignorant of the object of yourvisit. There has only been one occurrence in these offices which couldcall for your attention. In whose interest are you acting, may I ask?""In that of Mr. Percy Phelps," answered Holmes.

　　"Ah, my unfortunate nephew! You can understand that our kinshipmakes it the more impossible for me to screen him in any way. I fearthat the incident must have a very prejudicial effect upon hiscareer."

　　"But if the document is found?"

　　"Ah, that, of course, would be different."

　　"I had one or two questions which I wished to ask you, LordHoldhurst."

　　"I shall be happy to give you any information in my power.""Was it in this room that you gave your instructions as to thecopying of the document?"

　　"It was."

　　"Then you could hardly have been overheard?"

　　"It is out of the question."

　　"Did you ever mention to anyone that it was your intention to giveanyone the treaty to be copied?"

　　"Never."

　　"You are certain of that?"

　　"Absolutely."

　　"Well, since you never said so, and Mr. Phelps never said so, andnobody else knew anything of the matter, then the thief's presencein the room was purely accidental. He saw his chance and he took it."The statesman smiled. "You take me out of my province there," saidhe.

　　Holmes considered for a moment. "There is another very importantpoint which I wish to discuss with you," said he. "You feared, as Iunderstand, that very grave results might follow from the details ofthis treaty becoming known."

　　A shadow passed over the expressive face of the statesman. "Verygrave results indeed."

　　"And have they occurred?"

　　"Not yet."

　　"If the treaty had reached, let us say, the French or RussianForeign Office, you would expect to hear of it?"

　　"I should," said Lord Holdhurst with a wry face.

　　"Since nearly ten weeks have elapsed, then, and nothing has beenheard, it is not unfair to suppose that for some reason the treaty hasnot reached them."

　　Lord Holdhurst shrugged his shoulders.

　　"We can hardly suppose, Mr. Holmes, that the thief took the treatyin order to frame it and hang it up."

　　"Perhaps he is waiting for a better price."

　　"If he waits a little longer he will get no price at all. The treatywill cease to be secret in a few months."

　　"That is most important," said Holmes. "Of course, it is apossible supposition that the thief has had a sudden illness-""An attack of brain-fever, for example?" asked the statesman,flashing a swift glance at him.

　　"I did not say so," said Holmes imperturbably. "And now, LordHoldhurst, we have already taken up too much of your valuable time,and we shall wish you good-day."

　　"Every success to your investigation, be the criminal who it may,"answered the nobleman as he bowed us out at the door.

　　"He's a fine fellow," said Holmes as we came out into Whitehall."But he has a struggle to keep up his position. He is far from richand has many calls. You noticed, of that his boots had been resoled.Now, Watson, I won't detain you from your legitimate work anylonger. I shall do nothing more to-day unless I have an answer to mycab advertisement. But I should be extremely obliged to you if youwould come down with me to Woking to-morrow by the same train which wetook yesterday."

　　I met him accordingly next morning and we travelled down to Wokingtogether. He had had no answer to his advertisement, he said, and nofresh light had been thrown upon the case. He had, when he so willedit, the utter immobility of countenance of a red Indian, and I couldnot gather from his appearance whether he was satisfied or not withthe position of the case. His conversation, I remember, was aboutthe Bertillon system of measurements, and he expressed hisenthusiastic admiration of the French savant.

　　We found our client still under the charge of his devoted nurse, butlooking considerably better than before. He rose from the sofa andgreeted us without difficulty when we entered.

　　"Any news?" he asked eagerly.

　　"My report, as I expected, is a negative one," said Holmes. "Ihave seen Forbes, and I have seen your uncle, and I have set one ortwo trains of inquiry upon foot which may lead to something.""You have not lost heart, then?"

　　"By no means."

　　"God bless you for saying that!" cried Miss Harrison. "If we keepour courage and our patience the truth must come out."

　　"We have more to tell you than you have for us," said Phelps,reseating himself upon the couch.

　　"I hoped you might have something."

　　"Yes, we have had an adventure during the night, and one which mighthave proved to be a serious one." His expression grew very grave as hespoke, and a look of something akin to fear sprang up in his eyes. "Doyou know," said he, "that I begin to believe that I am the unconsciouscentre of some monstrous conspiracy, and that my life is aimed at aswell as my honour?"

　　"Ah!" cried Holmes.

　　"It sounds incredible, for I have not, as far as I know, an enemy inthe world. Yet from last night's experience I can come to no otherconclusion."

　　"Pray let me hear it."

　　"You must know that last night was the very first night that Ihave ever slept without a nurse in the room. I was so much better thatI though I could dispense with one. I had a night-light burning,however. Well, about two in the morning I had sunk into a lightsleep when I was suddenly aroused by a slight noise. It was like thesound which a mouse makes when it is gnawing a plank, and I laylistening to it for some time under the impression that it must comefrom that cause. Then it grew louder, and suddenly there came from thewindow a sharp metallic snick. I sat up in amazement. There could beno doubt what the sounds were now. The first ones had been caused bysomeone forcing an instrument through the slit between the sashes, andthe second by the catch being pressed back.

　　"There was a pause then for about ten minutes, as if the personwere waiting to see whether the noise had awakened me. Then I hearda gentle creaking as the window was very slowly opened. I couldstand it no longer, for my nerves are not what they used to be. Isprang out of bed and flung open the shutters. A man was crouchingat the window. I could see little of him, for he was gone like aflash. He was wrapped in some sort of cloak which came across thelower part of his face. One thing only I am sure of, and that isthat he had some weapon in his hand. It looked to me like a longknife. I distinctly saw the gleam of it as he turned to run.""This is most interesting," said Holmes. "Pray what did you dothen?"

　　"I should have followed him through the open window if I had beenstronger. As it was, I rang the bell and roused the house. It tooksome little time, for the bell rings in the kitchen and the servantsall sleep upstairs. I shouted, however, and that brought Josephdown, and he roused the others. Joseph and the groom found marks onthe bed outside the window, but the weather has been so dry latelythat they found it hopeless to follow the trail across the grass.There's a place, however, on the wooden fence which skirts the roadwhich shows signs, they tell me, as if someone had got over, and hadsnapped the top of the rail in doing so. I have said nothing to thelocal police yet, for I thought I had best have your opinion first."This tale of our client's appeared to have an extraordinary effectupon Sherlock Holmes. He rose from his chair and paced about theroom in uncontrollable excitement.

　　"Misfortunes never come single," said Phelps, smiling, though it wasevident that his adventure had somewhat shaken him.

　　"You have certainly had your share," said Holmes. "Do you thinkyou could walk round the house with me?"

　　"Oh, yes, I should like a little sunshine. Joseph will come, too.""And I also," said Miss Harrison.

　　"I am afraid not," said Holmes, shaking his head. "I think I mustask you to remain sitting exactly where you are."

　　The young lady resumed her seat with an air of displeasure. Herbrother, however, had joined us and we set off all four together. Wepassed round the lawn to the outside of the young diplomatist'swindow. There were, as he had said, marks upon the bed, but theywere hopelessly blurred and vague. Holmes stooped over them for aninstant, and then rose shrugging his shoulders.

　　"I don't think anyone could make much of this," said he. "Let usgo round the house and see why this particular room was chosen bythe burglar. I should have thought those larger windows of thedrawing-room and dining-room would have had more attractions for him.""They are more visible from the road," suggested Mr. JosephHarrison.

　　"Ah, yes, of course. There is a door here which he might haveattempted. What is it for?"

　　"It is the side entrance for trades-people. Of course it is lockedat night."

　　"Have you ever had an alarm like this before?"

　　"Never," said our client.

　　"Do you keep plate in the house, or anything to attract burglars?""Nothing of value."

　　Holmes strolled round the house with his hands in his pockets anda negligent air which was unusual with him.

　　"By the way," said he to Joseph Harrison, "you found some place, Iunderstand, where the fellow scaled the fence. Let us have a look atthat!"

　　The plump young man led us to a spot where the top of one of thewooden rails had been cracked. A small fragment of the wood washanging down. Holmes pulled it off and examined it critically."Do you think that was done last night? It looks rather old, does itnot?"

　　"Well, possibly so."

　　"There are no marks of anyone jumping down upon the other side.No, I fancy we shall get no help here. Let us go back to the bedroomand talk the matter over."

　　Percy Phelps was walking very slowly, leaning upon the arm of hisfuture brother-in-law. Holmes walked swiftly across the lawn, and wewere at the open window of the bedroom long before the others came up."Miss Harrison," said Holmes, speaking with the utmost intensityof manner, "you must stay where you are all day. Let nothing preventyou from staying where you are all day. It is of the utmostimportance."

　　"Certainly, if you wish it, Mr. Holmes," said the girl inastonishment.

　　"When you go to bed lock the door of this room on the outside andkeep the key. Promise to do this."

　　"But Percy?"

　　"He will come to London with us."

　　"And am I to remain here?"

　　"It is for his sake. You can serve him. Quick! Promise!"She gave a quick nod of assent just as the other two came up."Why do you sit moping there, Annie?" cried her brother. "Come outinto the sunshine!"

　　"No, thank you, Joseph. I have a slight headache and this room isdeliciously cool and soothing."

　　"What do you propose now, Mr. Holmes?" asked our client."Well, in investigating this minor affair we must not lose sightof our main inquiry. It would be a very great help to me if youwould come up to London with us."

　　"At once?"

　　"Well, as soon as you conveniently can. Say in an hour.""I feel quite strong enough, if I can really be of any help.""The greatest possible."

　　"Perhaps you would like me to stay there to-night?"

　　"I was just going to propose it."

　　"Then, if my friend of the night comes to revisit me, he will findthe bird flown. We are all in your hands, Mr. Holmes, and you musttell us exactly what you would like done. Perhaps you would preferthat Joseph came with us so as to look after me?"

　　"Oh, no, my friend Watson is a medical man, you know, and he'll lookafter you. We'll have our lunch here, if you will permit us, andthen we shall all three set off for town together."

　　It was arranged as he suggested, though Miss Harrison excusedherself from leaving the bedroom, in accordance with Holmes'ssuggestion. What the object of my friend's maneuvres was I could notconceive, unless it were to keep the lady away from Phelps, who,rejoiced by his returning health and by the prospect of action,lunched with us in the dining-room. Holmes had a still morestartling surprise for us, however, for, after accompanying us down tothe station and seeing us into our carriage, he calmly announcedthat he had no intention of leaving Woking.

　　"There are one or two small points which I should desire to clear upbefore I go," said he. "Your absence, Mr. Phelps, will in some waysrather assist me. Watson, when you reach London you would oblige me bydriving at once to Baker Street with our friend here, and remainingwith him until I see you again. It is fortunate that you are oldschool-fellows, as you must have much to talk over. Mr. Phelps canhave the spare bedroom to-night, and I will be with you in time forbreakfast, for there is a train which will take me into Waterloo ateight."

　　"But how about our investigation in London?" asked Phelps ruefully."We can do that to-morrow. I think that just at present I can beof more immediate use here."

　　"You might tell them at Briarbrae that I hope to be back to-morrownight," cried Phelps, as we began to move from the platform."I hardly expect to go back to Briarbrae," answered Holmes, andwaved his hand to us cheerily as we shot out from the station.Phelps and I talked it over on our journey, but neither of uscould devise a satisfactory reason for this new development."I suppose he wants to find out some clues as to the burglary lastnight, if a burglar it was. For myself, I don't believe it was anordinary thief."

　　"What is your own idea, then?"

　　"Upon my word, you may put it down to my weak nerves or not, but Ibelieve there is some deep political intrigue going on around me,and that for some reason that passes my understanding my life is aimedat by the conspirators. It sounds high-flown and absurd, butconsider the facts! Why should a thief try to break in at a bedroomwindow where there could be no hope of any plunder, and why shouldhe come with a long knife in his hand?"

　　"You are sure it was not a house-breaker's jimmy?"

　　"Oh, no, it was a knife. I saw the flash of the blade quitedistinctly."

　　"But why on earth should you be pursued with such animosity?""Ah, that is the question."

　　"Well, if Holmes takes the same view, that would account for hisaction, would it not? Presuming that your theory is correct, if he canlay his hands upon the man who threatened you last night he willhave gone a long way towards finding who took the naval treaty. Itis absurd to suppose that you have two enemies, one of whom robsyou, while the other threatens your life."

　　"But Holmes said that he was not going to Briarbrae."

　　"I have known him for some time," said I, "but I never knew him doanything yet without a very good reason," and with that ourconversation drifted off on to other topics.

　　But it was a weary day for me. Phelps was still weak after hislong illness, and his misfortunes made him querulous and nervous. Invain I endeavoured to interest him in Afghanistan, in India, in socialquestions, in anything which might take his mind out of the groove. Hewould always come back to his lost treaty, wondering, guessing,speculating as to what Holmes was doing, what steps Lord Holdhurst wastaking, what news we should have in the morning. As the evening woreon his excitement became quite painful.

　　"You have implicit faith in Holmes?" he asked.

　　"I have seen him do some remarkable things."

　　"But he never brought light into anything quite so dark as this?""Oh, yes, I have known him solve questions which presented fewerclues than yours."

　　"But not where such large interests are at stake?"

　　"I don't know that. To my certain knowledge he has acted on behalfof three of the reigning houses of Europe in very vital matters.""But you know him well, Watson. He is such an inscrutable fellowthat I never quite know what to make of him. Do you think he ishopeful? Do you think he expects to make a success of it?""He has said nothing."

　　"That is a bad sign."

　　"On the contrary. I have noticed that when he is off the trail hegenerally says so. It is when he is on a scent and is not quiteabsolutely sure yet that it is the right one that he is most taciturn.Now, my dear fellow, we can't help matters by making ourselves nervousabout them, so let me implore you to go to bed and so be fresh forwhatever may await us to-morrow."

　　I was able at last to persuade my companion to take my advice,though I knew from his excited manner that there was not much hopeof sleep for him. Indeed, his mood was infectious, for I lay tossinghalf the night myself, brooding over this strange problem andinventing a hundred theories, each of which was more impossible thanthe last. Why had Holmes remained at Woking? Why had he asked MissHarrison to remain in the sick-room all day? Why had he been socareful not to inform the people at Briarbrae that he intended toremain near them? I cudgelled my brains until I fell asleep in theendeavour to find some explanation which would cover all these facts.It was seven o'clock when I awoke, and I set off at once forPhelps's room to find him haggard and spent after a sleepless night.His first question was whether Holmes had arrived yet.

　　"He'll be here when he promised," said I, "and not an instant sooneror later."

　　And my words were true, for shortly after eight a hansom dashed upto the door and our friend got out of it. Standing in the window wesaw that his left hand was swathed in a bandage and that his facewas very grim and pale. He entered the house, but it was some littletime before he came upstairs.

　　"He looks like a beaten man," cried Phelps.

　　I was forced to confess that he was right. "After all," said I, "theclue of the matter lies probably here in town."

　　Phelps gave a groan.

　　"I don't know how it is," said he, "but I had hoped for so much fromhis return. But surely his hand was not tied up like that yesterday.What can be the matter?"

　　"You are not wounded, Holmes?" I asked as my friend entered theroom.

　　"Tut, it is only a scratch through my own clumsiness," heanswered, nodding his good-morning to us. "This case of yours, Mr.Phelps, is certainly one of the darkest which I have everinvestigated."

　　"I feared that you would find it beyond you."

　　"It has been a most remarkable experience."

　　"That bandage tells of adventures," said I. "Won't you tell uswhat has happened?"

　　"After breakfast, my dear Watson. Remember that I have breathedthirty miles of Surrey air this morning. I suppose that there has beenno answer from my cabman advertisement? Well, well, we cannot expectto score every time."

　　The table was all laid, and just as I was about to ring Mrs.Hudson entered with the tea and coffee. A few minutes later shebrought in three covers, and we all drew up to the table, Holmesravenous, I curious, and Phelps in the gloomiest state of depression."Mrs. Hudson has risen to the occasion," said Holmes, uncovering adish of curried chicken. "Her cuisine is a little limited, but she hasas good an idea of breakfast as a Scotchwoman. What have you there,Watson?"

　　"Ham and eggs," I answered.

　　"Good! What are you going to take, Mr. Phelps-curried fowl oreggs, or will you help yourself?"

　　"Thank you. I can eat nothing," said Phelps.

　　"Oh, come! Try the dish before you."

　　"Thank you, I would really rather not."

　　"Well, then," said Holmes with a mischievous twinkle, "I supposethat you have no objection to helping me?"

　　Phelps raised the cover, and as he did so he uttered a scream andsat there staring with a face as white as the plate upon which helooked. Across the centre of it was lying a little cylinder ofblue-gray paper. He caught it up, devoured it with his eyes, andthen danced madly about the room, pressing it to his bosom andshrieking out in his delight. Then he fell back into an armchair, solimp and exhausted with his own emotions that we had to pour brandydown his throat to keep him from fainting.

　　"There! there!" said Holmes soothingly, patting him upon theshoulder. "It was too bad to spring it on you like this, but Watsonhere will tell you that I never can resist a touch of the dramatic."Phelps seized his hand and kissed it. "God bless you!" he cried."You have saved my honour."

　　"Well, my own was at stake, you know," said Holmes. "I assure you itis just as hateful to me to fail in a case as it can be to you toblunder over a commission."

　　Phelps thrust away the precious document into the innermost pocketof his coat.

　　"I have not the heart to interrupt your breakfast any further, andyet I am dying to know how you got it and where it was."Sherlock Holmes swallowed a cup of coffee and turned his attentionto the ham and eggs. Then he rose, lit his pipe, and settled himselfdown into his chair.

　　"I'll tell you what I did first, and how I came to do itafterwards," said he. "After leaving you at the station I went for acharming walk through some admirable Surrey scenery to a pretty littlevillage called Ripley, where I had my tea at an inn and took theprecaution of filling my flask and of putting a paper of sandwiches inmy pocket. There I remained until evening, when I set off for Wokingagain and found myself in the highroad outside Briarbrae just aftersunset.

　　"Well, I waited until the road was clear-it is never a veryfrequented one at any time, I fancy-and then I clambered over thefence into the grounds."

　　"Surely the gate was open!' ejaculated Phelps.

　　"Yes, but I have a peculiar taste in these matters. I chose theplace where the three fir-trees stand, and behind their screen I gotover without the least chance of anyone in the house being able to seeme. I crouched down among the bushes on the other side and crawledfrom one to the other-witness the disreputable state of my trouserknees-until I had reached the clump of rhododendrons just oppositeto your bedroom window. There I squatted down and awaiteddevelopments.

　　"The blind was not down in your room, and I could see MissHarrison sitting there reading by the table. It was quarter-past tenwhen she closed her book, fastened the shutters, and retired."I heard her shut the door and felt quite sure that she had turnedthe key in the lock."

　　"The key!" ejaculated Phelps.

　　"Yes, I had given Miss Harrison instructions to lock the door on theoutside and take the key with her when she went to bed. She carriedout every one of my injunctions to the letter, and certainly withouther cooperation you would not have that paper in your coat-pocket. Shedeparted then and the lights went out, and I was left squatting in therhododendron-bush.

　　"The night was fine, but still it was a very weary vigil. Ofcourse it has the sort of excitement about it that the sportsman feelswhen he lies beside the water course and waits for the big game. Itwas very long, though-almost as long, Watson, as when you and I waitedin that deadly room when we looked into the little problem of theSpeckled Band. There was a church-clock down at Woking which struckthe quarters, and I thought more than once that it had stopped. Atlast, however, about two in the morning, I suddenly heard the gentlesound of a bolt being pushed back and the creaking of a key. Amoment later the servants' door was opened, and Mr. Joseph Harrisonstepped out into the moonlight."

　　"Joseph!" ejaculated Phelps.

　　"He was bare-headed, but he had a black cloak thrown over hisshoulder, so that he could conceal his face in an instant if therewere any alarm. He walked on tiptoe under the shadow of the wall,and when he reached the window he worked a long-bladed knife throughthe sash and pushed back the catch. Then he flung open the window, andputting his knife through the crack in the shutters, he thrust the barup and swung them open.

　　"From where I lay I had a perfect view of the inside of the room andof every one of his movements. He lit the two candles which stood uponthe mantelpiece, and then he proceeded to turn back the corner ofthe carpet in the neighbourhood of the door. Presently he stoopedand picked out a square piece of board, such as is usually left toenable plumbers to get at the joints of the gas-pipes. This onecovered, as a matter of fact, the T joint which gives off the pipewhich supplies the kitchen underneath. Out of this hiding-place hedrew that little cylinder of paper, pushed down the board,rearranged the carpet, blew out the candles, and walked straightinto my arms as I stood waiting for him outside the window."Well, he has rather more viciousness than I gave him credit for,has Master Joseph. He flew at me with his knife, and I had to grasphim twice, and got a cut over the knuckles, before I had the upperhand of him. He looked murder out of the only eye he could see withwhen we had finished, but he listened to reason and gave up thepapers. Having got them I let my man go, but I wired fullparticulars to Forbes this morning. If he is quick enough to catch hisbird, well and good. But if, as I shrewdly suspect, he finds thenest empty before he gets there, why, all the better for thegovernment. I fancy that Lord Holdhurst, for one, and Mr. Percy Phelpsfor another, would very much rather that the affair never got as faras a police-court."

　　"My God!" gasped our client. "Do you tell me that during theselong ten weeks of agony the stolen papers were within the very roomwith me all the time?"

　　"So it was."

　　"And Joseph! Joseph a villain and a thief!"

　　"Hum! I am afraid Joseph's character is a rather deeper and moredangerous one than one might judge from his appearance. From what Ihave heard from him this morning, I gather that he has lost heavily indabbling with stocks, and that he is ready to do anything on earthto better his fortunes. Being an absolutely selfish man, when a chancepresents itself he did not allow either his sister's happiness or yourreputation to hold his hand."

　　Percy Phelps sank back in his chair. "My head whirls," said he."Your words have dazed me."

　　"The principal difficulty in your case," remarked Holmes in hisdidactic fashion, "lay in the fact of there being too much evidence.What was vital was overlaid and hidden by what was irrelevant. Ofall the facts which were presented to us we had to pick just thosewhich we deemed to be essential, and then piece them together in theirorder, so as to reconstruct this very remarkable chain of events. Ihad already begun to suspect Joseph from the fact that you hadintended to travel home with him that night, and that therefore it wasa likely enough thing that he should call for you, knowing the ForeignOffice well, upon his way. When I heard that someone had been soanxious to get into the bedroom, in which no one but Joseph could haveconcealed anything-you told us in your narrative how you had turnedJoseph out when you arrived with the doctor-my suspicions allchanged to certainties, especially as the attempt was made on thefirst night upon which the nurse was absent, showing that the intruderwas well acquainted with the ways of the house."

　　"How blind I have been!"

　　"The facts of the case, as far as I have worked them out, are these:This Joseph Harrison entered the office through the Charles Streetdoor, and knowing his way he walked straight into your room theinstant after you left it. Finding no one there he promptly rang thebell, and at the instant that he did so his eyes caught the paper uponthe table. A glance showed him that chance had put in his way aState document of immense value, and in an instant he had thrust itinto his pocket and was gone. A few minutes elapsed, as youremember, before the sleepy commissionaire drew your attention tothe bell, and those were just enough to give the thief time to makehis escape.

　　"He made his way to Woking by the first train, and, havingexamined his booty and assured himself that it really was of immensevalue, he had concealed it in what he thought was a very safe place,with the intention of taking it out again in a day or two, andcarrying it to the French embassy, or wherever he thought that along price was to be had. Then came your sudden return. He, withouta moment's warning, was bundled out of his room, and from that timeonward there were always at least two of you there to prevent him fromregaining his treasure. The situation to him must have been amaddening one. But at last he thought he saw his chance. He tried tosteal in, but was baffled by your wakefulness. You may remember thatyou did not take your usual draught that night."

　　"I remember."

　　"I fancy that he had taken steps to make that draught efficacious,and that he quite relied upon your being unconscious. Of course, Iunderstood that he would repeat the attempt whenever it could bedone with safety. Your leaving the room gave him the chance he wanted.I kept Miss Harrison in it all day so that he might not anticipate us.Then, having given him the idea that the coast was clear, I kept guardas I have described. I already knew that the papers were probably inthe room, but I had no desire to rip up all the planking andskirting in search of them. I let him take them, therefore, from thehiding-place, and so saved myself an infinity of trouble. Is there anyother point which I can make clear?"

　　"Why did he try the window on the first occasion," I asked, "when hemight have entered by the door?"

　　"In reaching the door he would have to pass seven bedrooms. On theother hand, he could get out on to the lawn with case. Anything else?""You do not think," asked Phelps, "that he had any murderousintention? The knife was only meant as a tool."

　　"It may be so," answered Holmes, shrugging his shoulders. "I canonly say for certain that Mr. Joseph Harrison is a gentleman towhose mercy I should be extremely unwilling to trust."

　　THE END

　　.

　　1922

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE PROBLEM OF THOR BRIDGE

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　Somewhere in the vaults of the bank of Cox and Co., at CharingCross, there is a travel-worn and battered tin dispatch-box with myname, John H. Watson, M. D., Late Indian Army, painted upon the lid.It is crammed with papers, nearly all of which are records of cases toillustrate the curious problems which Mr. Sherlock Holmes had atvarious times to examine. Some, and not the least interesting, werecomplete failures, and as such will hardly bear narrating, since nofinal explanation is forthcoming. A problem without a solution mayinterest the student, but can hardly fail to annoy the casualreader. Among these unfinished tales is that of Mr. JamesPhillimore, who, stepping back into his own house to get his umbrella,was never more seen in this world. No less remarkable is that of thecutter Alicia, which sailed one spring morning into a small patch ofmist from where she never again emerged, nor was anything further everheard of herself and her crew. A third case worthy of note is thatof Isadora Persano, the well-known journalist and duellist, who wasfound stark staring mad with a match box in front of him whichcontained a remarkable worm said to be unknown to science. Apartfrom these unfathomed cases, there are some which involve thesecrets of private families to an extent which would meanconsternation in many exalted quarters if it were thought possiblethat they might find their way into print. I need not say that sucha breach of confidence is unthinkable, and that these records willbe separated and destroyed now that my friend has time to turn hisenergies to the matter. There remain a considerable residue of casesof greater or less interest which I might have edited before had I notfeared to give the public a surfeit which might react upon thereputation of the man whom above all others I revere. In some I wasmyself concerned and can speak as an eye-witness, while in others Iwas either not present or played so small a part that they couldonly be told as by a third person. The following narrative is drawnfrom my own experience.

　　It was a wild morning in October, and I observed as I was dressinghow the last remaining leaves were being whirled from the solitaryplane tree which graces the yard behind our house. I descended tobreakfast prepared to find my companion in depressed spirits, for,like all great artists, he was easily impressed by his surroundings.On the contrary, I found that he had nearly finished his meal, andthat his mood was particularly bright and joyous, with that somewhatsinister cheerfulness which was characteristic of his lighter moments."You have a case, Holmes?" I remarked.

　　"The faculty of deduction is certainly contagious, Watson," heanswered. "It has enabled you to probe my secret. Yes, I have acase. After a month of trivialities and stagnation the wheels moveonce more."

　　"Might I share it?"

　　"There is little to share, but we may discuss it when you haveconsumed the two hard-boiled eggs with which our new cook has favouredus. Their condition may not be unconnected with the copy of the FamilyHerald which I observed yesterday upon the hall-table. Even so triviala matter as cooking an egg demands an attention which is consciousof the passage of time and incompatible with the love romance inthat excellent periodical."

　　A quarter of an hour later the table had been cleared and we wereface to face. He had drawn a letter from his pocket.

　　"You have heard of Neil Gibson, the Gold King?" he said."You mean the American Senator?"

　　"Well, he was once Senator for some Western state, but is betterknown as the greatest gold-mining magnate in the world.""Yes, I know of him. he has surely lived in England for some time.His name is very familiar."

　　"Yes, he bought a considerable estate in Hampshire some five yearsago. Possibly you have already heard of the tragic end of his wife?""Of course. I remember it now. That is why the name is familiar. ButI really know nothing of the details."

　　Holmes waved his hand towards some papers on a chair. "I had no ideathat the case was coming my way or I should have had my extractsready," said he. "The fact is that the problem, though exceedinglysensational, appeared to present no difficulty. The interestingpersonality of the accused does not obscure the clearness of theevidence. That was the view taken by the coroner's jury and also inthe police-court proceedings. It is now referred to the Assizes atWinchester. I fear it is a thankless business. I can discover facts,Watson, but I cannot change them. Unless some entirely new andunexpected ones come to light I do not see what my client can hopefor."

　　"Your client?"

　　"Ah, I forgot I had not told you. I am getting into your involvedhabit, Watson, of telling the story backward. You had best read thisfirst."

　　The letter which he handed to me, written in a bold, masterful hand,ran as follows:

　　CLARIDGE'S HOTEL,

　　October 3rd.

　　Dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes:

　　I can't see the best woman God ever made go to her death withoutdoing all that is possible to save her. I can't explain things- Ican't even try to explain them, but I know beyond all doubt thatMiss Dunbar is innocent. You know the facts- who doesn't? It hasbeen the gossip of the country. And never a voice raised for her! It'sthe damned injustice of it all that makes me crazy. That woman has aheart that wouldn't let her kill a fly. Well, I'll come at elevento-morrow and see if you can get some ray of light in the dark.Maybe I have a clue and don't know it. Anyhow, all I know and all Ihave and all I am are for your use if only you can save her. If everin your life you showed your powers, put them now into this case.Yours faithfully,

　　J. NEIL GIBSON.

　　"There you have it," said Sherlock Holmes, knocking out the ashes ofhis after breakfast pipe and slowly refilling it. "That is thegentleman I await. As to the story, you have hardly time to master allthese papers, so I must give it to you in a nutshell if you are totake an intelligent interest in the proceedings. This man is thegreatest financial power in the world, and a man, as I understand,of most violent and formidable character. He married a wife, thevictim of this tragedy, of whom I know nothing save that she waspast her prime, which was the more unfortunate as a very attractivegoverness superintended the education of two young children. These arethe three people concerned, and the scene is a grand old manorhouse, the centre of a historical English state. Then as to thetragedy. The wife was found in the grounds nearly half a mile from thehouse, late at night, clad in her dinner dress, with a shawl overher shoulders and a revolver bullet through her brain. No weapon wasfound near her and there was no local clue as to the murder. No weaponnear her, Watson- mark that! The crime seems to have been committedlate in the evening, and the body was found by a gamekeeper abouteleven o'clock, when it was examined by the police and by a doctorbefore being carried up to the house. Is this too condensed, or canyou follow it clearly?"

　　"It is all very clear. But why suspect the governess?"

　　"Well, in the first place there is some very direct evidence. Arevolver with one discharged chamber and a calibre whichcorresponded with the bullet was found on the floor of herwardrobe." His eyes fixed and he repeated in broken words, "On- the-floor- of- her- wardrobe." Then he sank into silence, and I saw thatsome train of thought had been set moving which I should be foolish tointerrupt. Suddenly with a start he emerged into brisk life once more."Yes, Watson, it was found. Pretty damning, eh? So the two juriesthought. Then the dead woman had a note upon her making an appointmentat that very place and signed by the governess. How's that? Finallythere is the motive. Senator Gibson is an attractive person. If hiswife dies, who more likely to succeed her than the young lady whohad already by all accounts received pressing attentions from heremployer? Love, fortune, power, all depending upon one middle-agedlife. Ugly, Watson- very ugly!"

　　"Yes, indeed, Holmes."

　　"Nor could she prove an alibi. On the contrary, she had to admitthat she was down near Thor Bridge- that was the scene of the tragedy-about that hour. She couldn't deny it, for some passing villager hadseen her there."

　　"That really seems final."

　　"And yet, Watson- and yet! This bridge- a single broad span of stonewith balustraded sides- carries the drive over the narrowest part of along, deep, reedgirt sheet of water. Thor Mere it is called. In themouth of the bridge lay the dead woman. Such are the main facts. Buthere, if I mistake not, is our client, considerably before his time."Billy had opened the door, but the name which he announced was anunexpected one. Mr. Marlow Bates was a stranger to both of us. Hewas a thin, nervous wisp of a man with frightened eyes and atwitching, hesitating manner- a man whom my own professional eye wouldjudge to be on the brink of an absolute nervous breakdown."You seem agitated, Mr. Bates," said Holmes. "Pray sit down. Ifear I can only give you a short time, for I have an appointment ateleven."

　　"I know you have," our visitor gasped, shooting out shortsentences like a man who is out of breath, "Mr. Gibson is coming.Mr. Gibson is my employer. I am manager of his estate. Mr. Holmes,he is a villain- an infernal villain."

　　"Strong language, Mr. Bates."

　　"I have to be emphatic, Mr. Holmes, for the time is so limited. Iwould not have him find me here for the world. He is almost due now.But I was so situated that I could not come earlier. His secretary,Mr. Ferguson, only told me this morning of his appointment with you.""And you are his manager?"

　　"I have given him notice. In a couple of weeks I shall have shakenoff his accursed slavery. A hard man, Mr. Holmes, hard to all abouthim. Those public charities are a screen to cover his privateiniquities. But his wife was his chief victim. He was brutal to her-yes, sir, brutal! How she came by her death I do not know, but I amsure that he had made her life a misery to her. She was a creatureof the tropics, a Brazilian by birth, as no doubt you know.""No, it had escaped me."

　　"Tropical by birth and tropical by nature. A child of the sun and ofpassion. She had loved him as such women can love, but when her ownphysical charms had faded- I am told that they once were great-there was nothing to hold him. We all liked her and felt for her andhated him for the way that he treated her. But he is plausible andcunning. That is all I have to say to you. Don't take him at hisface value. There is more behind. Now I'll go. No, no, don't detainme! He is almost due."

　　With a frightened look at the clock our strange visitor literallyran to the door and disappeared.

　　"Well! Well!" said Holmes after an interval of silence. "Mr.Gibson seems to have a nice loyal household. But the warning is auseful one, and now we can only wait till the man himself appears."Sharp at the hour we heard a heavy step upon the stairs, and thefamous millionaire was shown into the room. As I looked upon him Iunderstood not only the fears and dislike of his manager but alsothe execrations which so many business rivals have heaped upon hishead. If I were a sculptor and desired to idealize the successfulman of affairs, iron of nerve and leathery of conscience, I shouldchoose Mr. Neil Gibson as my model. His tall, gaunt, craggy figure hada suggestion of hunger and rapacity. An Abraham Lincoln keyed tobase uses instead of high ones would give some idea of the man. Hisface might have been chiselled in granite, hard-set, craggy,remorseless, with deep lines upon it, the sears of many a crisis. Coldgray eyes, looking shrewdly out from under bristling brows, surveyedus each in turn. He bowed in perfunctory fashion as Holmes mentionedmy name, and then with a masterful air of possession he drew a chairup to my companion and seated himself with his bony knees almosttouching him.

　　"Let me say right here, Mr. Holmes," he began, "that money isnothing to me in this case. You can burn it if it's any use inlighting you to the truth. This woman is innocent and this woman hasto be cleared, and it's up to you to do it. Name your figure!""My professional charges are upon a fixed scale," said Holmescoldly. "I do not vary them, save when I remit them altogether.""Well, if dollars make no difference to you, think of thereputation. If you pull this off every paper in England and Americawill be booming you. You'll be the talk of two continents.""Thank you, Mr. Gibson, I do not think that I am in need of booming.It may surprise you to know that I prefer to work anonymously, andthat it is the problem itself which attracts me. But we are wastingtime. Let us get down to the facts."

　　"I think that you will find all the main ones in the pressreports. I don't know that I can add anything which will help you. Butif there is anything you would wish more light upon- well, I am hereto give it."

　　"Well, there is just one point."

　　"What is it?"

　　"What were the exact relations between you and Miss Dunbar?"The Gold King gave a violent start and half rose from his chair.Then his massive calm came back to him.

　　"I suppose you are within your rights- and maybe doing your duty- inasking such a question, Mr. Holmes."

　　"We will agree to suppose so," said Holmes.

　　"Then I can assure you that our relations were entirely and alwaysthose of an employer towards a young lady whom he never conversedwith, or ever saw, save when she was in the company of his children."Holmes rose from his chair.

　　"I am a rather busy man, Mr. Gibson," said he, "and I have no timeor taste for aimless conversations. I wish you good-morning."Our visitor had risen also, and his great loose figure towered aboveHolmes. There was an angry gleam from under those bristling browsand a tinge of colour in the sallow cheeks.

　　"What the devil do you mean by this, Mr. Holmes? Do you dismiss mycase?"

　　"Well, Mr. Gibson, at least I dismiss you. I should have thoughtmy words were plain."

　　"Plain enough, but what's at the back of it? Raising the price onme, or afraid to tackle it, or what? I've a right to a plain answer.""Well, perhaps you have," said Holmes. "I'll give you one. This caseis quite sufficiently complicated to start with without the furtherdifficulty of false information."

　　"Meaning that I lie."

　　"Well, I was trying to express it as delicately as I could, but ifyou insist upon the word I will not contradict you."

　　I sprang to my feet, for the expression upon the millionaire'sface was fiendish in its intensity, and he had raised his greatknotted fist. Holmes smiled languidly and reached his hand out for hispipe.

　　"Don't be noisy, Mr. Gibson. I find that after breakfast even thesmallest argument is unsettling. I suggest that a stroll in themorning air and a little quiet thought will be greatly to youradvantage."

　　With an effort the Gold King mastered his fury. I could not butadmire him, for by a supreme self-command he had turned in a minutefrom a hot flame of anger to a frigid and contemptuous indifference."Well, it's your choice. I guess you know how to run your ownbusiness. I can't make you touch the case against your will. You'vedone yourself no good this morning, Mr. Holmes, for I have brokenstronger men than you. No man ever crossed me and was the better forit."

　　"So many have said so, and yet here I am," said Holmes, smiling."Well, good morning, Mr. Gibson. You have a good deal yet to learn."Our visitor made a noisy exit, but Holmes smoked in imperturbablesilence with dreamy eyes fixed upon the ceiling.

　　"Any views, Watson?" he asked at last.

　　"Well, Holmes, I must confess that when I consider that this is aman who would certainly brush any obstacle from his path, and when Iremember that his wife may have been an obstacle and an object ofdislike, as that man Bates plainly told us, it seems to me-""Exactly. And to me also."

　　"But what were his relations with the governess, and how did youdiscover them?"

　　"Bluff, Watson, bluff! When I considered the passionate,unconventional, unbusinesslike tone of his letter and contrasted itwith his self-contained manner and appearance, it was pretty clearthat there was some deep emotion which centred upon the accusedwoman rather than upon the victim. We've got to understand the exactrelations of those three people if we are to reach the truth. Yousaw the frontal attack which I made upon him, and how imperturbably hereceived it. Then I bluffed him by giving him the impression that Iwas absolutely certain, when in reality I was only extremelysuspicious."

　　"Perhaps he will come back?"

　　"He is sure to come back. He must come back. He can't leave it whereit is. Ha! isn't that a ring? Yes, there is his footstep. Well, Mr.Gibson, I was just saying to Dr. Watson that you were somewhatoverdue."

　　The Gold King had reentered the room in a more chastened mood thanhe had left it. His wounded pride still showed in his resentfuleyes, but his common sense had shown him that he must yield if hewould attain his end.

　　"I've been thinking it over, Mr. Holmes, and I feel that I have beenhasty in taking your remarks amiss. You are justified in gettingdown to the facts, whatever they may be, and I think the more of youfor it. I can assure you, however, that the relations between MissDunbar and me don't really touch this case."

　　"That is for me to decide, is it not?"

　　"Yes, I guess that is so. You're like a surgeon who wants everysymptom before he can give his diagnosis."

　　"Exactly. That expresses it. And it is only a patient who has anobject in deceiving his surgeon who would conceal the facts of hiscase."

　　"That may be so, but you will admit, Mr. Holmes, that most men wouldshy off a bit when they are asked point-blank what their relationswith a woman may be- if there is really some serious feeling in thecase. I guess most men have a little private reserve of their own insome corner of their souls where they don't welcome intruders. And youburst suddenly into it. But the object excuses you, since it was totry and save her. Well, the stakes are down and the reserve open,and you can explore where you will. What is it you want?""The truth."

　　The Gold King paused for a moment as one who marshals histhoughts. His grim, deep-lined face had become even sadder and moregrave.

　　"I can give it to you in a very few words, Mr. Holmes," said he atlast. "There are some things that are painful as well as difficultto say, so I won't go deeper than is needful. I met my wife when I wasgold-hunting in Brazil. Maria Pinto was the daughter of a governmentofficial at Manaos, and she was very beautiful. I was young and ardentin those days, but even now, as I look back with colder blood and amore critical eye, I can see that she was rare and wonderful in herbeauty. It was a deep rich nature, too, passionate, whole-hearted,tropical, ill-balanced, very different from the American women whomI had known. Well, to make a long story short, I loved her and Imarried her. It was only when the romance had passed- and itlingered for years- that I realized that we had nothing- absolutelynothing- in common. My love faded. If hers had faded also it mighthave been easier. But you know the wonderful way of women! Do what Imight, nothing could turn her from me. If I have been harsh to her,even brutal as some have said, it has been because I knew that if Icould kill her love, or if it turned to hate, it would be easier forboth of us. But nothing changed her. She adored me in those Englishwoods as she had adored me twenty years ago on the banks of theAmazon. Do what I might, she was as devoted as ever.

　　"Then came Miss Grace Dunbar. She answered our advertisement andbecame governess to our two children. Perhaps you have seen herportrait in the papers. The whole world has proclaimed that she alsois a very beautiful woman. Now, I make no pretence to be more moralthan my neighbours, and I will admit to you that I could not liveunder the same roof with such a woman and in daily contact with herwithout feeling a passionate regard for her. Do you blame me, Mr.Holmes?"

　　"I do not blame you for feeling it. I should blame you if youexpressed it, since this young lady was in a sense under yourprotection."

　　"Well, maybe so," said the millionaire, though for a moment thereproof had brought the old angry gleam into his eyes. "I'm notpretending to be any better than I am. I guess all my life I've been aman that reached out his hand for what he wanted, and I never wantedanything more than the love and possession of that woman. I told herso."

　　"Oh, you did, did you?"

　　Holmes could look very formidable when he was moved.

　　"I said to her that if I could marry her I would, but that it wasout of my power. I said that money was no object and that all Icould do to make her happy and comfortable would be done.""Very generous, I am sure," said Holmes with a sneer.

　　"See here, Mr. Holmes. I came to you on a question of evidence,not on a question of morals. I'm not asking for your criticism.""It is only for the young lady's sake that I touch your case atall," said Holmes sternly. "I don't know that anything she isaccused of is really worse than what you have yourself admitted,that you have tried to ruin a defenceless girl who was under yourroof. Some of you rich men have to be taught that all the world cannotbe bribed into condoning your offences."

　　To my surprise the Cold King took the reproof with equanimity."That's how I feel myself about it now. I thank God that my plainsdid not work out as I intended. She would have none of it, and shewanted to leave the house instantly."

　　"Why did she not?"

　　"Well, in the first place, others were dependent upon her, and itwas no light matter for her to let them all down by sacrificing herliving. When I had sworn- as I did- that she should never bemolested again, she consented to remain. But there was another reason.She knew the influence she had over me, and that it was strongerthan any other influence in the world. She wanted to use it for good.""How?"

　　"Well, she knew something of my affairs. They are large, Mr. Holmes-large beyond the belief of an ordinary man. I can make or break- andit is usually break. It wasn't individuals only. It was communities,cities, even nations. Business is a hard game, and the weak go tothe wall. I played the game for all it was worth. I never squealedmyself, and I never cared if the other fellow squealed. But she saw itdifferent. I guess she was right. She believed and said that a fortunefor one man that was more than he needed should not be built on tenthousand ruined men who were left without the means of life. Thatwas how she saw it, and I guess she could see past the dollars tosomething that was more lasting. She found that I listened to what shesaid, and she believed she was serving the world by influencing myactions. So she stayed- and then this came along."

　　"Can you throw any light upon that?"

　　The Gold King paused for a minute or more, his head sunk in hishands, lost in deep thought.

　　"It's very black against her. I can't deny that. And women lead aninward life and may do things beyond the judgment of a man. At first Iwas so rattled and taken aback that I was ready to think she hadbeen led away in some extraordinary fashion that was clean against herusual nature. One explanation came into my head. I give it to you, Mr.Holmes, for what it is worth. There is no doubt that my wife wasbitterly jealous. There is a soul-jealousy that can be as frantic asany body-jealousy, and though my wife had no cause- and I think sheunderstood this- for the latter, she was aware that this Englishgirl exerted an influence upon my mind and my acts that she herselfnever had. It was an influence for good, but that did not mend thematter. She was crazy with hatred, and the beat of the Amazon wasalways in her blood. She might have planned to murder Miss Dunbar-or we will say to threaten her with a gun and so frighten her intoleaving us. Then there might have been a scuffle and the gun goneoff and shot the woman who held it."

　　"That possibility had already occurred to me," said Holmes. "Indeed,it is the only obvious alternative to deliberate intruder.""But she utterly denies it."

　　"Well, that is not final- is it? One can understand that a womanplaced in so awful a position might hurry home still in herbewilderment holding the revolver. She might even throw it downamong her clothes, hardly knowing what she was doing, and when itwas found she might try to lie her way out by a total denial, sinceall explanation was impossible. What is against such a supposition?""Miss Dunbar herself."

　　"Well, perhaps."

　　Holmes looked at his watch. "I have no doubt we can get thenecessary permits this morning and reach Winchester by the eveningtrain. When I have seen this young lady it is very possible that I maybe of more use to you in the matter, though I cannot promise that myconclusions will necessarily be such as you desire."

　　There was some delay in the official pass, and instead of reachingWinchester that day we went down to Thor Place, the Hampshire estateof Mr. Neil Gibson. He did not accompany us himself, but we had theaddress of Sergeant Coventry, of the local police, who had firstexamined into the affair. He was a tall, thin, cadaverous man, witha secretive and mysterious manner which conveyed the idea that he knewor suspected a very great deal more than he dared say. He had a trick,too, of suddenly sinking his voice to a whisper as if he had come uponsomething of vital importance, though the information was usuallycommonplace enough. Behind these tricks of manner he soon showedhimself to be a decent, honest fellow who was not too proud to admitthat he was out of his depth and would welcome any help."Anyhow, I'd rather have you than Scotland Yard, Mr. Holmes," saidhe. "If the Yard gets called into a case, then the local loses allcredit for success and may be blamed for failure. Now, you playstraight, so I've heard."

　　"I need not appear in the matter at all," said Holmes to the evidentrelief of our melancholy acquaintance. "If I can clear it up I don'task to have my name mentioned."

　　"Well, it's very handsome of you, I am sure. And your friend, Dr.Watson, can he trusted, I know. Now, Mr. Holmes, as we walk down tothe place there is one question I should like to ask you. I'dbreathe it to no soul but you." He looked round as thorough hehardly dare utter the words. "Don't you think there might be a caseagainst Mr. Neil Gibson himself?"

　　"I have been considering that."

　　"You've not seen Miss Dunbar. She is a wonderful fine woman in everyway. He may well have wished his wife out of the road. And theseAmericans are readier with pistols than our folk are. It was hispistol, you know."

　　"Was that clearly made out?"

　　"Yes, sir. It was one of a pair that he had."

　　"One of a pair? Where is the other?"

　　"Well, the gentleman has a lot of firearms of one sort andanother. We never quite matched that particular pistol- but the boxwas made for two."

　　"If it was one of a pair you should surely be able to match it.""Well, we have them all laid out at the house if you would care tolook them over."

　　"Later, perhaps. I think we will walk down together and have alook at the scene of the tragedy."

　　This conversation had taken place in the little front room ofSergeant Coventry's horrible cottage which served as the localpolice-station. A walk of half a mile or so across a wind-swept heath,all gold and bronze with the fading ferns, brought us to a side-gateopening into the grounds of the Thor Place estate. A path led usthrough the pheasant preserves, and then from a clearing we saw thewidespread, half-timbered house, half Tudor and half Georgian, uponthe crest of the hill. Beside us there was a long, reedy pool,constricted in the centre where the main carriage drive passed overa stone bridge, but swelling into small lakes on either side. Ourguide paused at the mouth of this bridge, and he pointed to theground.

　　"That was where Mrs. Gibson's body lay. I marked it by that stone.""I understand that you were there before it was moved?""Yes, they sent for me at once."

　　"Who did?"

　　"Mr. Gibson himself. The moment the alarm was given and he hadrushed down with others from the house, he insisted that nothingshould be moved until the police should arrive."

　　"That was sensible. I gathered from the newspaper report that theshot was fired from close quarters."

　　"Yes, sir, very close."

　　"Near the right temple?"

　　"Just Behind it, sir."

　　"How did the body lie?"

　　"On the back, sir. No trace of a struggle. No marks. No weapon.The short note from Miss Dunbar was clutched in her left hand.""Clutched, you say?"

　　"Yes, sir, we could hardly open the fingers."

　　"That is of great importance. It excludes the idea that anyone couldhave placed the note there after death in order to furnish a falseclue. Dear me! The note, as I remember, was quite short:"I will be at Thor Bridge at nine o'clock.

　　"G. DUNBAR.

　　Was that not so?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"Did Miss Dunbar admit writing it?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"What was her explanation?"

　　"Her defence was reserved for the Assizes. She would say nothing.""The problem is certainly a very interesting one. The point of theletter is very obscure, is it not?"

　　"Well, sir," said the guide, "it seemed, if I may be so bold as tosay so, the only really clear point in the whole case."Holmes shook his head.

　　"Granting that the letter is genuine and was really written, itwas certainly received some time before- say one hour or two. Why,then, was this lady still clasping it in her left hand? Why should shecarry it so carefully? She did not need to refer to it in theinterview. Does it not seem remarkable?"

　　"Well, sir, as you put it, perhaps it does."

　　"I think I should like to sit quietly for a few minutes and think itout." He seated himself upon the stone ledge of the bridge, and Icould see his quick gray eyes darting their questioning glances inevery direction. Suddenly he sprang up again and ran across to theopposite parapet, whipped his lens from his pocket, and began toexamine the stonework.

　　"This is curious," said he.

　　"Yes, sir, we saw the chip on the ledge. I expect it's been doneby some passer-by."

　　The stonework was gray, But at this one point it showed white fora space not larger than a sixpence. When examined closely one couldsee that the surface was chipped as by a sharp blow.

　　It took some violence to do that," said Holmes thoughtfully. Withhis cane he struck the ledge several times without leaving a mark."Yes, it was a hard knock. In a curious place, too. It was not fromabove but from below, for you see that it is on the lower edge ofthe parapet."

　　"But it is at least fifteen feet from the body."

　　"Yes, it is fifteen feet from the body. It may have nothing to dowith the matter, But it is a point worth noting. I do not think thatwe have anything more to learn where. There were no footsteps, yousay?"

　　The ground was iron hard, sir. There were no traces at all.""Then we can go. We will go up to the house first and look overthese weapons of which you speak. Then we shall get on toWinchester, for I should desire to see Miss Dunbar before we gofarther."

　　Mr. Neil Gibson had not returned from town, but we saw in thehouse the neurotic Mr. Bates who had called upon us in the morning. Heshowed us with a sinister relish the formidable array of firearms ofvarious shapes and sizes which his employer had accumulated in thecourse of an adventurous life.

　　"Mr. Gibson has his enemies, as anyone would expect who knew him andhis methods," said he. "He sleeps with a loaded revolver in the drawerbeside his bed. He is a man of violence, sir, and there are times whenall of us are afraid of him. I am sure that the poor lady who haspassed was often terrified."

　　"Did you ever witness physical violence towards her?"

　　"No, I cannot say that. But I have heard words which were nearlyas bad- words of cold, cutting contempt, even before the servants.""Our millionaire does not seem to shine in private life," remarkedHolmes as we made our way to the station. "Well, Watson, we havecome on a good many facts, some of them new ones, and yet I seemsome way from my conclusion. In spite of the evident dislike which Mr.Bates has to his employer, I gather from him that when the alarmcame he was undoubtedly in his library. Dinner was over at 8:30 andall was normal up to then. It is true that the alarm was somewhat latein the evening, but the tragedy certainly occurred about the hournamed in the note. There is no evidence at all that Mr. Gibson hadbeen out of doors since his return from town at five o'clock. On theother hand, Miss Dunbar, as I understand it, admits that she hadmade an appointment to meet Mrs. Gibson at the bridge. Beyond this shewould say nothing, as her lawyer, had advised her to reserve herdefence. We have several very vital questions to ask that younglady, and my mind will not be easy until we have seen her. I mustconfess that the case would seem to me to be very black against her ifit were not for one thing."

　　"And what is that, Holmes?"

　　"The finding of the pistol in her wardrobe."

　　"Dear me, Holmes!" I cried, "that seemed to me to be the mostdamning incident of all."

　　"Not so, Watson. It had struck me even at my first perfunctoryreading as very strange, and now that I am in closer touch with thecase it is my only firm ground for hope. We must look for consistency.Where there is a want of it we must suspect deception.""I hardly follow you."

　　"Well now, Watson, suppose for a moment that we visualize you in thecharacter of a woman who, in a cold, premeditated fashion, is about toget rid of a rival. You have planned it. A note has been written.The victim has come. You have your weapon. The crime is done. It hasbeen workmanlike and complete. Do you tell me that after carryingout so crafty a crime you would now ruin your reputation as a criminalby forgetting to fling your weapon into those adjacent reed-beds whichwould forever cover it, but you must needs carry it carefully home andput it in your own wardrobe, the very first place that would besearched? Your best friends would hardly call you a schemer, Watson,and yet I could not picture you doing anything so crude as that.""In the excitement of the moment-"

　　"No, no, Watson, I will not admit that it is possible. Where a crimeis coolly premeditated, then the means of covering it are coollypremeditated also. I hope, therefore, that we are in the presence of aserious misconception."

　　"But there is so much to explain."

　　"Well, we shall set about explaining it. When once your point ofview is changed, the very thing which was so damning becomes a clue tothe truth. For example, there is this revolver. Miss Dunbardisclaims all knowledge of it. On our new theory she is speaking truthwhen she says so. Therefore, it was placed in her wardrobe. Who placedit there? Someone who wished to incriminate her. Was not that personthe actual criminal? You see how we come at once upon a mostfruitful line of inquiry."

　　We were compelled to spend the night at Winchester, as theformalities had not yet been completed, but next morning, in thecompany of Mr. Joyce Cummings, the rising barrister who wasentrusted with the defence, we were allowed to see the young lady inher cell. I had expected from all that we had heard to see a beautifulwoman, but I can never forget the effect which Miss Dunbar producedupon me. It was no wonder that even the masterful millionaire hadfound in her something more powerful than himself- something whichcould control and guide him. One felt, too, as one looked at thestrong, clear-cut, and yet sensitive face, that even should she becapable of some impetuous deed. None the less there was an innatenobility of character which would make her influence always for thegood. She was a brunette, tall, with a noble figure and commandingpresence, but her dark eyes had in them the appealing, helplessexpression of the hunted creature who feels the nets around it, butcan see no way out from the toils. Now, as she realized the presenceand the help of my famous friend, there came a touch of colour inher wan cheeks and a light of hope began to glimmer in the glancewhich she turned upon us.

　　"Perhaps Mr. Neil Gibson has told you something of what occurredbetween us?" she asked in a low, agitated voice.

　　"Yes," Holmes answered, "you need not pain yourself by entering intothat part of the story. After seeing you, I am prepared to acceptMr. Gibson's statement both as to the influence which you had over himand as to the innocence of your relations with him. But why was thewhole situation not brought out in court?"

　　"It seemed to me incredible that such a charge could be sustained. Ithought that if we waited the whole thing must clear itself up withoutour being compelled to enter into painful details of the inner life ofthe family. But I understand that far from clearing it has become evenmore serious."

　　"My dear young lady," cried Holmes earnestly, "I beg you to haveno illusions upon the point. Mr. Cummings here would assure you thatall the cards are at present against us, and that we must doeverything that is possible if we are to win clear. It would be acruel deception to pretend that you are not in very great danger. Giveme all the help you can, then, to get at the truth."

　　"I will conceal nothing."

　　"Tell us, then, of your true relations with Mr. Gibson's wife.""She hated me, Mr. Holmes. She hated me with all the fervour ofher tropical nature. She was a woman who would do nothing by halves,and the measure of her love fear her husband was the measure also ofher hatred for me. It is probable that she misunderstood ourrelations. I would not wish to wrong her, but she loved so vividlyin a physical sense that she could hardly understand the mental, andeven spiritual, tie which held her husband to me, or imagine that itwas only my desire to influence his power to good ends which kept meunder his roof. I can see now that I was wrong. Nothing couldjustify me in remaining where I was a cause of unhappiness, and yet itis certain that the unhappiness would have remained even if I had leftthe house."

　　"Now, Miss Dunbar," said Holmes, "I beg you to tell us exactlywhat occurred that evening."

　　"I can tell you the truth so far as I know it, Mr. Holmes, but Iam in a position to prove nothing, and there are points- the mostvital points- which I can neither explain nor can I imagine anyexplanation."

　　"If you will find the facts, perhaps others may find theexplanation."

　　"With regard, then, to my presence at Thor Bridge that night, Ireceived a note from Mrs. Gibson in the morning. It lay on the tableof the schoolroom, and it may have been left there by her own hand. Itimplored me to see her there after dinner, said she had somethingimportant to say to me, and asked me to leave an answer on the sundialin the garden, as she desired no one to be in our confidence, I saw noreason for such secrecy, but I did as she asked, accepting theappointment. She asked me to destroy her note and I burned it in theschoolroom grate. She was very much afraid of her husband, who treatedher with a harshness for which I frequently reproached him, and Icould only imagine that she acted in this way Because she did not wishhim to know of our interview."

　　"Yet she kept your reply very carefully?"

　　"Yes. I was surprised to hear that she had it in her hand when shedied."

　　"Well, what happened then?"

　　"I went down as I had promised. When I reached the bridge she waswaiting for me. Never did I realize till that moment how this poorcreature hated me. She was like a mad woman- indeed, I think she was amad woman, subtly mad with the deep power of deception which insanepeople may have. How else could she have met me with unconcern everyday and yet had so raging a hatred of me in her heart? I will notsay what she said. She poured her whole wild fury out in burning andhorrible words. I did not even answer- I could not. It was dreadful tosee her. I put my hands to my ears and rushed away. When I left hershe was standing, still shrieking out her curses at me, in the mouthof the bridge."

　　"Where she was afterwards found?"

　　"Within a few yards from the spot."

　　"And yet, presuming that she met her death shortly after you lefther, you heard no shot?"

　　"No, I heard nothing. But, indeed, Mr. Holmes, I was so agitated andhorrified by this terrible outbreak that I rushed to get back to thepeace of my own room, and I was incapable of noticing anything whichhappened."

　　"You say that you returned to your room. Did you leave it againbefore next morning.

　　"Yes, when the alarm came that the poor creature had met her death Iran out with the others."

　　"Did you see Mr. Gibson?"

　　"Yes, he had just returned from the bridge when I saw him. He hadsent for the doctor and the police."

　　"Did he seem to you much perturbed?"

　　"Mr. Gibson is a very strong, self-contained man. I do not thinkthat he would ever show his emotions on the surface. But I, who knewhim so well, could see that he was deeply concerned."

　　"Then we come to the all-important point. This pistol that was foundin your room. Had you ever seen it before?"

　　"Never, I swear it."

　　"When was it found?"

　　"Next morning, when the police made their search."

　　"Among your clothes?"

　　"Yes, on the floor of my wardrobe under my dresses."

　　"You could not guess how long it had been there?"

　　"It had not been there the morning before."

　　"How do you know?"

　　"Because I tidied out the wardrobe."

　　"That is final. Then someone came into your room and placed thepistol there in order to inculpate you."

　　"It must have been so."

　　"And when?"

　　"It could only have been at meal-time, or else at the hours when Iwould be in the schoolroom with the children."

　　"As you were when you got the note?"

　　"Yes, from that time onward for the whole morning."

　　"Thank you, Miss Dunbar. Is there any other point which could helpme in the investigation?"

　　"I can think of none."

　　"There was some sign of violence on the stonework of the bridge- aperfectly fresh chip just opposite the body. Could you suggest anypossible explanation of that?"

　　"Surely it must be a mere coincidence."

　　"Curious, Miss Dunbar, very curious. Why should it appear at thevery time of the tragedy, and why at the very place?"

　　"But what could have caused it? Only great violence could havesuch an effect."

　　Holmes did not answer. His pale, eager face had suddenly assumedthat tense, far-away expression which I had learned to associatewith the supreme manifestations of his genius. So evident was thecrisis in his mind that none of us dared to speak, and we sat,barrister, prisoner, and myself, watching him in a concentrated andabsorbed silence. Suddenly he sprang from his chair, vibrating withnervous energy and the pressing need for action.

　　"Come, Watson, come!" he cried.

　　"What is it, Mr. Holmes?"

　　"Never mind, my dear lady. You will hear from me, Mr. Cummings. Withthe help of the god of justice I will give you a case which willmake England ring. You will get news by to-morrow, Miss Dunbar, andmeanwhile take my assurance that the clouds are lifting and that Ihave every hope that the light of truth is breaking through."It was not a long journey from Winchester to Thor Place, but itwas long to me in my impatience, while for Holmes it was evidentthat it seemed endless; for, in his nervous restlessness, he could notsit still, but paced the carriage or drummed with his long,sensitive fingers upon the cushions beside him. Suddenly, however,as we neared our destination he seated himself opposite to me- wehad a first-class carriage to ourselves- and laying a hand upon eachof my knees he looked into my eyes with the peculiarly mischievousgaze which was characteristic of his more imp-like moods."Watson," said he, "I have some recollection that you go armedupon these excursions of ours."

　　It was as well for him that I did so, for he took little care forhis own safety when his mind was once absorbed by a problem, so thatmore than once my revolver had been a good friend in need. Ireminded him of the fact.

　　"Yes, yes, I am a little absent-minded in such matters. But have youyour revolver on you?"

　　I produced it from my hip-pocket, a short, handy, but veryserviceable little weapon. He undid the catch, shook out thecartridges, and examined it with care.

　　"It's heavy- remarkably heavy," said he.

　　"Yes, it is a solid bit of work."

　　He mused over it for a minute.

　　"Do you know, Watson," said he, "I believe your revolver is going tohave a very intimate connection with the mystery which we areinvestigating."

　　"My dear Holmes, you are joking."

　　"No, Watson, I am very serious. There is a test before us. If thetest comes off all will be clear. And the test will depend upon theconduct of this little weapon. One cartridge out. Now we willreplace the other five and put on the safetycatch. So! Thatincreases the weight and makes it a better reproduction."I had no glimmer of what was in his mind, nor did he enlighten me,but sat lost in thought until we pulled up in the little Hampshirestation, We secured a ramshackle trap, and in a quarter of all hourwere at the house of our confidential friend, the sergeant."A clue, Mr. Holmes? What is it?"

　　"It all depends upon the behaviour of Dr. Watson's revolver," saidmy friend. Here it is. Now, officer, can you give me ten yards ofstring?"

　　The village shop provided a ball of stout twine.

　　"I think that this is all we will need," said Holmes. "Now, if youplease, we will get off on what I hope is the last stage of ourjourney."

　　The sun was setting and turning the rolling Hampshire moor into awonderful autumnal panorama. The sergeant, with many critical andincredulous glances, which showed his deep doubts of the sanity ofmy companion, lurched along beside us. As we approached the scene ofthe crime I could see that my friend under all his habitual coolnesswas in truth deeply agitated.

　　"Yes," he said in answer to my remark, "you have seen me miss mymark before, Watson. I have all instinct for such things, and yet ithas sometimes played me false. It seemed a certainty when first itflashed across my mind in the cell at Winchester, but one drawbackof an active mind is that one can always conceive alternativeexplanations which would make our scent a false one. And yet- and yet-Well, Watson, we can but try"

　　As he walked he had firmly tied one end of the string to thehandle of the revolver. We had now reached the scene of the tragedy.With great care he marked out under the guidance of the policemanthe exact spot where the body had been stretched. He then hunted amongthe heather and the ferns until he found a considerable stone. This hesecured to the other end of his line of string, and he hung it overthe parapet of the bridge so that it swung clear above the water. Hethen stood on the fatal spot, some distance from the edge of thebridge, with my revolver in his hand, the string being taut betweenthe weapon and the heavy stone on the farther side.

　　"Now for it!" he cried.

　　At the words he raised the pistol to his head, and then let go hisgrip. In an instant it had been whisked away by the weight of thestone, had struck with a sharp crack against the parapet, and hadvanished over the side into the water. It had hardly gone beforeHolmes was kneeling beside tile stonework, and a joyous cry showedthat he had found what he expected.

　　"Was there ever a more exact demonstration?" he cried. "See, Watson,your revolver has solved the problem!" As he spoke he pointed to asecond chip of the exact size and shape of the first which hadappeared on the under edge of the stone balustrade.

　　"We'll stay at the inn to-night," he continued as he rose andfaced the astonished sergeant. "You will, of course, get agrappling-hook and you will easily restore my friend's revolver. Youwill also find beside it the revolver, string and weight with whichthis vindictive woman attempted to disguise her own crime and tofasten a charge of murder upon an innocent victim. You can let Mr.Gibson know that I will see him in the morning, when steps can betaken for Miss Dunbar's vindication."

　　Late that evening, is we sat together smoking our pipes in thevillage inn, Holmes gave me a brief review of what had passed."I fear, Watson," said he, "that you will not improve any reputationwhich I may have acquired by adding the case of the Thor Bridgemystery to your annals. I have been sluggish in mind and wanting inthat mixture of imagination and reality which is the basis of myart. I confess that the chip in the stonework was a sufficient clue tosuggest the true solution, and that I blame myself for not havingattained it sooner.

　　"It must be admitted that the workings of this unhappy woman'smind were deep and subtle, so that it was no very simple matter tounravel her plot. I do not think that in our adventures we have evercome across a stranger example of what perverted love can bring about.Whether Miss Dunbar was her rival in a physical or in a merelymental sense seems to have been equally unforgivable in her eyes. Nodoubt she blamed this innocent lady for all those harsh dealings andunkind words with which her husband tried to repel her toodemonstrative affection. Her first resolution was to end her own life.Her second was to do it in such a way as to involve her victim in afate which was worse far than any sudden death could be."We can follow the various steps quite clearly, and they show aremarkable subtlety of mind. A note was extracted very cleverly fromMiss Dunbar which would make it appear that she had chosen the sceneof the crime. In her anxiety that it should be discovered she somewhatoverdid it by holding it in her hand to the last. This alone shouldhave excited my suspicions earlier than it did.

　　"Then she took one of her husband's revolvers- there was, as yousaw, an arsenal in the house- and kept it for her own use. A similarone she concealed that morning in Miss Dunbar's wardrobe afterdischarging one barrel, which she could easily do in the woods withoutattracting attention. She then went down to the bridge where she hadcontrived this exceedingly ingenious method for getting rid of herweapon. When Miss Dunbar appeared she used her last breath inpouring out her hatred, and then, when she was out of hearing, carriedout her terrible purpose. Every link is now in its place and the chainis complete. The papers may ask why the mere was not dragged in thefirst instance, but it is easy to be wise after the event, and inany case the expanse of a reed-filled lake is no easy matter to dragunless you have a clear perception of what you are looking for andwhere. Well, Watson, we have helped a remarkable woman, and also aformidable man. Should they in the future join their forces, asseems not unlikely, the financial world may find that Mr. NeilGibson has learned something in that schoolroom of sorrow where ourearthly lessons are taught."

　　THE END

　　.

　　THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　The Red-Headed League

　　I had called upon my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, one day in theautumn of last year and found him in deep conversation with a verystout, florid-faced, elderly gentleman with fiery red hair.  Withan apology for my intrusion, I was about to withdraw when Holmespulled me abruptly into the room and closed the door behind me."You could not possibly have come at a better time, my dearWatson," he said cordially.

　　"I was afraid that you were engaged."

　　"So I am.  Very much so."

　　"Then I can wait in the next room."

　　"Not at all.  This gentleman, Mr. Wilson, has been my partnerand helper in many of my most successful cases, and I have nodoubt that he will be of the utmost use to me in yours also."The stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a bob ofgreeting, with a quick little questioning glance from his small,fat-encircled eyes.

　　"Try the settee," said Holmes, relapsing into his armchair andputting his fingertips together, as was his custom when injudicial moods.  "I know, my dear Watson, that you share my loveof all that is bizarre and outside the conventions and humdrumroutine of everyday life.  You have shown your relish for it bythe enthusiasm which has prompted you to chronicle, and, if youwill excuse my saying so, somewhat to embellish so many of my ownlittle adventures."

　　"Your cases have indeed been of the greatest interest to me,"I observed.

　　"You will remember that I remarked the other day, just beforewe went into the very simple problem presented by Miss MarySutherland, that for strange effects and extraordinary

　　combinations we must go to life itself, which is always far moredaring than any effort of the imagination."

　　"A proposition which I took the liberty of doubting."

　　"You did, Doctor, but none the less you must come round to myview, for otherwise I shall keep on piling fact upon fact on youuntil your reason breaks down under them and acknowledges me to beright.  Now, Mr. Jabez Wilson here has been good enough to callupon me this morning, and to begin a narrative which promises tobe one of the most singular which I have listened to for sometime.  You have heard me remark that the strangest and most uniquethings are very often connected not with the larger but with thesmaller crimes, and occasionally, indeed, where there is room fordoubt whether any positive crime has been committed.  As far as Ihave heard it is impossible for me to say whether the present caseis an instance of crime or not, but the course of events iscertainly among the most singular that I have ever listened to.Perhaps, Mr. Wilson, you would have the great kindness torecommence your narrative.  I ask you not merely because my friendDr. Watson has not heard the opening part but also because thepeculiar nature of the story makes me anxious to have everypossible detail from your lips.  As a rule, when I have heard someslight indication of the course of events, I am able to guidemyself by the thousands of other similar cases which occur to mymemory.  In the present instance I am forced to admit that thefacts are, to the best of my belief, unique."

　　The portly client puffed out his chest with an appearance ofsome little pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper fromthe inside pocket of his greatcoat.  As he glanced down theadvertisement column, with his head thrust forward and the paperflattened out upon his knee, I took a good look at the man andendeavoured, after the fashion of my companion, to read theindications which might be presented by his dress or appearance.I did not gain very much, however, by my inspection.  Ourvisitor bore every mark of being an average commonplace Britishtradesman, obese, pompous, and slow.  He wore rather baggy grayshepherd's check trousers, a not over-clean black frock-coat,unbuttoned in the front, and a drab waistcoat with a heavy brassyAlbert chain, and a square pierced bit of metal dangling down asan ornament.  A frayed top-hat and a faded brown overcoat with awrinkled velvet collar lay upon a chair beside him.  Altogether,look as I would, there was nothing remarkable about the man savehis blazing red head, and the expression of extreme chagrin anddiscontent upon his features.

　　Sherlock Holmes's quick eye took in my occupation, and heshook his head with a smile as he noticed my questioning glances."Beyond the obvious facts that he has at some time done manuallabour, that he takes snuff, that he is a Freemason, that he hasbeen in China, and that he has done a considerable amount ofwriting lately, I can deduce nothing else."

　　Mr. Jabez Wilson started up in his chair, with his forefingerupon the paper, but his eyes upon my companion.

　　"How, in the name of good-fortune, did you know all that, Mr.Holmes?" he asked.  "How did you know, for example, that I didmanual labour?  It's as true as gospel, for I began as a ship'scarpenter."

　　"Your hands, my dear sir.  Your right hand is quite a sizelarger than your left.  You have worked with it, and the musclesare more developed."

　　"Well, the snuff, then, and the Freemasonry?"

　　"I won't insult your intelligence by telling you how I readthat, especially as, rather against the strict rules of yourorder, you use an arc-and-compass breastpin."

　　"Ah, of course, I forgot that.  But the writing?"

　　"What else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shinyfor five inches, and the left one with the smooth patch near theelbow where you rest it upon the desk?"

　　"Well, but China?"

　　"The fish that you have tattooed immediately above your rightwrist could only have been done in China.  I have made a smallstudy of tattoo marks and have even contributed to the literatureof the subject.  That trick of staining the fishes' scales of adelicate pink is quite peculiar to China.  When, in addition, Isee a Chinese coin hanging from your watch-chain, the matterbecomes even more simple."

　　Mr. Jabez Wilson laughed heavily.  "Well, I never!" said he."I thought at first that you had done something clever, but I seethat there was nothing in it, after all."

　　"I begin to think, Watson," said Holmes, "that I make amistake in explaining.  `Omne ignotum pro magnifico,' you know,and my poor little reputation, such as it is, will suffershipwreck if I am so candid.  Can you not find the advertisement,Mr. Wilson?"

　　"Yes, I have got it now," he answered with his thick redfinger planted halfway down the column.  "Here it is.  This iswhat began it all.  You just read it for yourself, sir."I took the paper from him and read as follows:

　　To THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE:

　　On account of the bequest of the late Ezekiah Hopkins, ofLebanon, Pennsylvania, U.S.A., there is now another vacancyopen which entitles a member of the League to a salary of 4 pound aweek for purely nominal services.  All red-headed men who aresound in body and mind, and above the age of twenty-one years,are eligible. Apply in person on Monday, at eleven o'clock, toDuncan Ross, at the offices of the League, 7 Pope's Court,Fleet Street.

　　"What on earth does this mean?" I ejaculated after I had twiceread over the extraordinary announcement.

　　Holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair, as was his habitwhen in high spirits.  "It is a little off the beaten track, isn'tit?" said he.  "And now, Mr. Wilson, off you go at scratch andtell us all about yourself, your household, and the effect whichthis advertisement had upon your fortunes.  You will first make anote, Doctor, of the paper and the date."

　　"It is The Morning Chronicle of April 27, 1890.  Just twomonths ago."

　　"Very good.  Now, Mr. Wilson?"

　　"Well, it is just as I have been telling you, Mr. SherlockHolmes," said Jabez Wilson, mopping his forehead; "I have a smallpawnbroker's business at Coburg Square, near the City.  It's not avery large affair, and of late years it has not done more thanjust give me a living.  I used to be able to keep two assistants,but now I only keep one; and I would have a job to pay him butthat he is willing to come for half wages so as to learn thebusiness."

　　"What is the name of this obliging youth?" asked SherlockHolmes.

　　"His name is Vincent Spaulding, and he's not such a youth,either.  It's hard to say his age.  I should not wish a smarterassistant, Mr. Holmes; and I know very well that he could betterhimself and earn twice what I am able to give him.  But, afterall, if he is satisfied, why should I put ideas in his head?""Why, indeed?  You seem most fortunate in having an employeewho comes under the full market price.  It is not a commonexperience among employers in this age.  I don't know that yourassistant is not as remarkable as your advertisement."

　　"Oh, he has his faults, too," said Mr. Wilson.  "Never wassuch a fellow for photography.  Snapping away with a camera whenhe ought to be improving his mind, and then diving down into thecellar like a rabbit into its hole to develop his pictures.  Thatis his main fault, but on the whole he's a good worker.  There'sno vice in him."

　　"He is still with you, I presume?"

　　"Yes, sir.  He and a girl of fourteen, who does a bit ofsimple cooking and keeps the place clean--that's all I have in thehouse, for I am a widower and never had any family.  We live veryquietly, sir, the three of us; and we keep a roof over our headsand pay our debts, if we do nothing more.

　　"The first thing that put us out was that advertisement.Spaulding, he came down into the office just this day eight weeks,with this very paper in his hand, and he says:

　　"`I wish to the Lord, Mr. Wilson, that I was a red-headedman.'

　　"`Why that?' I asks.

　　"`Why,' says he, `here's another vacancy on the League of theRed-headed Men.  It's worth quite a little fortune to any man whogets it, and I understand that there are more vacancies than thereare men, so that the trustees are at their wits end what to dowith the money.  If my hair would only change colour, here's anice little crib all ready for me to step into.'

　　"`Why, what is it, then?' I asked.  "You see, Mr. Holmes, I ama very stay-at-home man, and as my business came to me instead ofmy having to go to it, I was often weeks on end without putting myfoot over the door-mat.  In that way I didn't know much of whatwas going on outside, and I was always glad of a bit of news."`Have you never heard of the League of the Red-headed Men?'he asked with his eyes open.

　　"`Never.'

　　"`Why, I wonder at that, for you are eligible yourself for oneof the vacancies.'

　　"`And what are they worth?' I asked.

　　"`Oh, merely a couple of hundred a year, but the work isslight, and it need not interfere very much with one's otheroccupations.'

　　"Well, you can easily think that that made me prick up myears, for the business has not been over-good for some years, andan extra couple of hundred would have been very handy.

　　"`Tell me all about it,' said I."

　　"`Well,' said he, showing me the advertisement, `you can seefor yourself that the League has a vacancy, and there is theaddress where you should apply for particulars.  As far as I canmake out, the League was founded by an American millionaire,Ezekiah Hopkins, who was very peculiar in his ways.  He washimself red-headed, and he had a great sympathy for all red-headedmen; so when he died it was found that he had left his enormousfortune in the hands of trustees, with instructions to apply theinterest to the providing of easy berths to men whose hair is ofthat colour.  From all I hear it is splendid pay and very littleto do.'

　　"`But,' said I, `there would be millions of red-headed men whowould apply.'

　　"`Not so many as you might think,' he answered.  `You see itis really confined to Londoners, and to grown men.  This Americanhad started from London when he was young, and he wanted to do theold town a good turn.  Then, again, I have heard it is no use yourapplying if your hair is light red, or dark red, or anything butreal bright, blazing, fiery red.  Now, if you cared to apply, Mr.Wilson, you would just walk in; but perhaps it would hardly beworth your while to put yourself out of the way for the sake of afew hundred pounds.'

　　"Now, it is a fact, gentlemen, as you may see for yourselves,that my hair is of a very full and rich tint, so that it seemed tome that if there was to be any competition in the matter I stoodas good a chance as any man that I had ever met.  VincentSpaulding seemed to know so much about it that I thought he mightprove useful, so I just ordered him to put up the shutters for theday and to come right away with me.  He was very willing to have aholiday, so we shut the business up and started off for theaddress that was given us in the advertisement.

　　"I never hope to see such a sight as that again, Mr. Holmes.From north, south, east, and west every man who had a shade of redin his hair had tramped into the city to answer the advertisement.Fleet Street was choked with red-headed folk, and Pope's Courtlooked like a coster's orange barrow.  I should not have thoughtthere were so many in the whole country as were brought togetherby that single advertisement.  Every shade of colour theywere--straw, lemon, orange, brick, Irish-setter, liver, clay; but,as Spaulding said, there were not many who had the real vividflame-coloured tint.  When I saw how many were waiting, I wouldhave given it up in despair; but Spaulding would not hear of it.How he did it I could not imagine, but he pushed and pulled andbutted until he got me through the crowd, and right up to thesteps which led to the office.  There was a double stream upon thestair, some going up in hope, and some coming back dejected; butwe wedged in as well as we could and soon found ourselves in theoffice."

　　"Your experience has been a most entertaining one," remarkedHolmes as his client paused and refreshed his memory with a hugepinch of snuff.  "Pray continue your very interesting statement.""There was nothing in the office but a couple of wooden chairsand a deal table, behind which sat a small man with a head thatwas even redder than mine.  He said a few words to each candidateas he came up, and then he always managed to find some fault inthem which would disqualify them.  Getting a vacancy did not seemto be such a very easy matter, after all.  However, when our turncame the little man was much more favourable to me than to any ofthe others, and he closed the door as we entered, so that he mighthave a private word with us.

　　"`This is Mr. Jabez Wilson,' said my assistant, `and he iswilling to fill a vacancy in the League.'

　　"`And he is admirably suited for it,' the other answered.  `Hehas every requirement.  I cannot recall when I have seen anythingso fine.'  He took a step backward, cocked his head on one side,and gazed at my hair until I felt quite bashful.  Then suddenly heplunged forward, wrung my hand, and congratulated me warmly on mysuccess.

　　"`It would be injustice to hesitate,' said he.  `You will,however, I am sure, excuse me for taking an obvious precaution.'With that he seized my hair in both his hands, and tugged until Iyelled with the pain.  `There is water in your eyes,' said he ashe released me.  `I perceive that all is as it should be.  But wehave to be careful, for we have twice been deceived by wigs andonce by paint.  I could tell you tales of cobbler's wax whichwould disgust you with human nature.'  He stepped over to thewindow and shouted through it at the top of his voice that thevacancy was filled.  A groan of disappointment came up from below,and the folk all trooped away in different directions until therewas not a red-head to be seen except my own and that of themanager.

　　"`My name,' said he, `is Mr. Duncan Ross, and I am myself oneof the pensioners upon the fund left by our noble benefactor.  Areyou a married man, Mr. Wilson?  Have you a family?'

　　"I answered that I had not.

　　"His face fell immediately.

　　"`Dear me!' he said gravely, `that is very serious indeed!  Iam sorry to hear you say that.  The fund was, of course, for thepropagation and spread of the red-heads as well as for theirmaintenance.  It is exceedingly unfortunate that you should be abachelor.'

　　"My face lengthened at this, Mr. Holmes, for I thought that Iwas not to have the vacancy after all; but after thinking it overfor a few minutes he said that it would be all right.

　　"`In the case of another,' said he, `the objection might befatal, but we must stretch a point in favour of a man with such ahead of hair as yours.  When shall you be able to enter upon yournew duties?'

　　"`Well, it is a little awkward, for I have a business

　　already,' said I.

　　"`Oh, never mind about that, Mr. Wilson!' said Vincent

　　Spaulding.  `I should be able to look after that for you.'"`What would be the hours?' I asked.

　　"`Ten to two.'

　　"Now a pawnbroker's business is mostly done of an evening, Mr.Holmes, especially Thursday and Friday evening, which is justbefore pay-day; so it would suit me very well to earn a little inthe mornings.  Besides, I knew that my assistant was a good man,and that he would see to anything that turned up.

　　"`That would suit me very well,' said I.  `And the pay?'"`Is 4 pound a week.'

　　"`And the work?'

　　"`Is purely nominal.'

　　"`What do you call purely nominal?'

　　"`Well, you have to be in the office, or at least in thebuilding, the whole time.  If you leave, you forfeit your wholeposition forever.  The will is very clear upon that point.  Youdon't comply with the conditions if you budge from the officeduring that time.'

　　"`It's only four hours a day, and I should not think ofleaving,' said I.

　　"`No excuse will avail,' said Mr. Duncan Ross; `neithersickness nor business nor anything else.  There you must stay, oryou lose your billet.'

　　"`And the work?'

　　"`Is to copy out the Encyclopedia Britannica.  There is thefirst volume of it in that press.  You must find your own ink,pens, and blotting-paper, but we provide this table and chair.Will you be ready to-morrow?'

　　"`Certainly,' I answered.

　　"`Then, good-bye, Mr. Jabez Wilson, and let me congratulateyou once more on the important position which you have beenfortunate enough to gain.'  He bowed me out of the room, and Iwent home with my assistant, hardly knowing what to say or do, Iwas so pleased at my own good fortune.

　　"Well, I thought over the matter all day, and by evening I wasin low spirits again; for I had quite persuaded myself that thewhole affair must be some great hoax or fraud, though what itsobject might be I could not imagine.  It seemed altogether pastbelief that anyone could make such a will, or that they would paysuch a sum for doing anything so simple as copying out theEncyclopaedia Britannica.  Vincent Spaulding did what he could tocheer me up, but by bedtime I had reasoned myself out of the wholething.  However, in the morning I determined to have a look at itanyhow, so I bought a penny bottle of ink, and with a quill-pen,and seven sheets of foolscap paper, I started off for Pope'sCourt.

　　"Well, to my surprise and delight, everything was as right aspossible.  The table was set out ready for me, and Mr. Duncan Rosswas there to see that I got fairly to work.  He started me offupon the letter A, and then he left me; but he would drop in fromtime to time to see that all was right with me.  At two o'clock hebade me good-day, complimented me upon the amount that I hadwritten, and locked the door of the office after me.

　　"This went on day after day, Mr. Holmes, and on Saturday themanager came in and planked down four golden sovereigns for myweek's work.  It was the same next week, and the same the weekafter.  Every morning I was there at ten, and every afternoon Ileft at two.  By degrees Mr. Duncan Ross took to coming in onlyonce of a morning, and then, after a time, he did not come in atall.  Still, of course, I never dared to leave the room for aninstant, for I was not sure when he might come, and the billet wassuch a good one, and suited me so well, that I would not risk theloss of it.

　　"Eight weeks passed away like this, and I had written aboutAbbots and Archery and Armour and Architecture and Attica, andhoped with diligence that I might get on to the B's before verylong.  It cost me something in foolscap, and I had pretty nearlyfilled a shelf with my writings.  And then suddenly the wholebusiness came to an end."

　　"To an end?"

　　"Yes, sir.  And no later than this morning.  I went to my workas usual at ten o'clock, but the door was shut and locked, with alittle square of card-board hammered on to the middle of the panelwith a tack.  Here it is, and you can read for yourself."He held up a piece of white card-board about the size of asheet of note-paper.  It read in this fashion:

　　THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE

　　IS

　　DISSOLVED.

　　October 9, 1890.

　　Sherlock Holmes and I surveyed this curt announcement and therueful face behind it, until the comical side of the affair socompletely overtopped every other consideration that we both burstout into a roar of laughter.

　　"I cannot see that there is anything very funny," cried ourclient, flushing up to the roots of his flaming head.  "If you cando nothing better than laugh at me, I can go elsewhere.""No, no," cried Holmes, shoving him back into the chair fromwhich he had half risen.  "I really wouldn't miss your case forthe world.  It is most refreshingly unusual.  But there is, if youwill excuse my saying so, something just a little funny about it.Pray what steps did you take when you found the card upon thedoor?"

　　"I was staggered, sir.  I did not know what to do.  Then Icalled at the offices round, but none of them seemed to knowanything about it.  Finally, I went to the landlord, who is anaccountant living on the ground-floor, and I asked him if he couldtell me what had become of the Red-headed League.  He said that hehad never heard of any such body.  Then I asked him who Mr. DuncanRoss was.  He answered that the name was new to him.

　　"`Well,' said I, `the gentleman at No. 4.'

　　"`What, the red-headed man?'

　　"`Yes.'

　　"`Oh,' said he, `his name was William Morris.  He was asolicitor and was using my room as a temporary convenience untilhis new premises were ready.  He moved out yesterday.'

　　"`Where could I find him?'

　　"`Oh, at his new offices.  He did tell me the address.  Yes,17 King Edward Street, near St. Paul's.'

　　"I started off, Mr. Holmes, but when I got to that address itwas a manufactory of artificial knee-caps, and no one in it hadever heard of either Mr. William Morris or Mr. Duncan Ross.""And what did you do then?" asked Holmes.

　　"I went home to Saxe-Coburg Square, and I took the advice ofmy assistant.  But he could not help me in any way.  He could onlysay that if I waited I should hear by post.  But that was notquite good enough, Mr. Holmes.  I did not wish to lose such aplace without a struggle, so, as I had heard that you were goodenough to give advice to poor folk who were in need of it, I cameright away to you."

　　"And you did very wisely," said Holmes.  "Your case is anexceedingly remarkable one, and I shall be happy to look into it.From what you have told me I think that it is possible that graverissues hang from it than might at first sight appear."

　　"Grave enough!" said Mr. Jabez Wilson.  "Why, I have lost fourpound a week."

　　"As far as you are personally concerned," remarked Holmes, "Ido not see that you have any grievance against this extraordinaryleague.  On the contrary, you are, as I understand, richer by some30 pound, to say nothing of the minute knowledge which you have gainedon every subject which comes under the letter A.  You have lostnothing by them."

　　"No, sir.  But I want to find out about them, and who theyare, and what their object was in playing this prank--if it was aprank--upon me.  It was a pretty expensive joke for them, for itcost them two and thirty pounds."

　　"We shall endeavour to clear up these points for you.  And,first, one or two questions, Mr. Wilson.  This assistant of yourswho first called your attention to the advertisement--how long hadhe been with you?"

　　"About a month then."

　　"How did he come?"

　　"In answer to an advertisement."

　　"Was he the only applicant?"

　　"No, I had a dozen."

　　"Why did you pick him?"

　　"Because he was handy and would come cheap."

　　"At half-wages, in fact."

　　"Yes."

　　"What is he like, this Vincent Spaulding?"

　　"Small, stout-built, very quick in his ways, no hair on hisface, though he's not short of thirty.  Has a white splash of acidupon his forehead."

　　Holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excitement.  "Ithought as much," said he.  "Have you ever observed that his earsare pierced for earrings?"

　　"Yes, sir.  He told me that a gypsy had done it for him whenhe was a lad."

　　"Hum!" said Holmes, sinking back in deep thought.  "He isstill with you?"

　　"Oh, yes, sir; I have only just left him."

　　"And has your business been attended to in your absence?""Nothing to complain of, sir.  There's never very much to doof a morning."

　　"That will do, Mr. Wilson.  I shall be happy to give you anopinion upon the subject in the course of a day or two.  To-day isSaturday, and I hope that by Monday we may come to a conclusion.""Well, Watson," said Holmes when our visitor had left us,"what do you make of it all?"

　　"I make nothing of it," I answered frankly.  "It is a mostmysterious business."

　　"As a rule," said Holmes, "the more bizarre a thing is theless mysterious it proves to be.  It is your commonplace,featureless crimes which are really puzzling, just as acommonplace face is the most difficult to identify.  But I must beprompt over this matter."

　　"What are you going to do, then?" I asked.

　　"To smoke," he answered.  "It is quite a three pipe problem,and I beg that you won't speak to me for fifty minutes."  Hecurled himself up in his chair, with his thin knees drawn up tohis hawk-like nose, and there he sat with his eyes closed and hisblack clay pipe thrusting out like the bill of some strange bird.I had come to the conclusion that he had dropped asleep, andindeed was nodding myself, when he suddenly sprang out of hischair with the gesture of a man who has made up his mind and puthis pipe down upon the mantelpiece.

　　"Sarasate plays at the St. James's Hall this afternoon," heremarked.  "What do you think, Watson?  Could your patients spareyou for a few hours?"

　　"I have nothing to do today.  My practice is never veryabsorbing."

　　"Then put on your hat and come.  I am going through the Cityfirst, and we can have some lunch on the way.  I observe thatthere is a good deal of German music on the programme, which israther more to my taste than Italian or French.  It is

　　introspective, and I want to introspect.  Come along!"

　　We travelled by the Underground as far as Aldersgate; and ashort walk took us to Saxe-Coburg Square, the scene of thesingular story which we had listened to in the morning.  It was apoky, little, shabby-genteel place, where four lines of dingytwo-storied brick houses looked out into a small railed-inenclosure, where a lawn of weedy grass and a few clumps of fadedlaurel-bushes made a hard fight against a smoke-laden anduncongenial atmosphere.  Three gilt balls and a brown board with"JABEZ WILSON" in white letters, upon a corner house, announcedthe place where our red-headed client carried on his business.Sherlock Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one sideand looked it all over, with his eyes shining brightly betweenpuckered lids.  Then he walked slowly up the street, and then downagain to the corner, still looking keenly at the houses.  Finallyhe returned to the pawnbroker's, and, having thumped vigorouslyupon the pavement with his stick two or three times, he went up tothe door and knocked.  It was instantly opened by a

　　bright-looking, clean-shaven young fellow, who asked him to stepin.

　　"Thank you," said Holmes, "I only wished to ask you how youwould go from here to the Strand."

　　"Third right, fourth left," answered the assistant promptly,closing the door.

　　"Smart fellow, that," observed Holmes as we walked away.  "Heis, in my judgment, the fourth smartest man in London, and fordaring I am not sure that he has not a claim to be third.  I haveknown something of him before."

　　"Evidently," said I, "Mr. Wilson's assistant counts for a gooddeal in this mystery of the Red-headed League.  I am sure that youinquired your way merely in order that you might see him.""Not him."

　　"What then?"

　　"The knees of his trousers."

　　"And what did you see?"

　　"What I expected to see."

　　"Why did you beat the pavement?"

　　"My dear doctor, this is a time for observation, not for talk.We are spies in an enemy's country.  We know something ofSaxe-Coburg Square.  Let us now explore the parts which lie behindit."

　　The road in which we found ourselves as we turned round thecorner from the retired Saxe-Coburg Square presented as great acontrast to it as the front of a picture does to the back.  It wasone of the main arteries which conveyed the traffic of the City tothe north and west.  The roadway was blocked with the immensestream of commerce flowing in a double tide inward and outward,while the footpaths were black with the hurrying swarm ofpedestrians.  It was difficult to realize as we looked at the lineof fine shops and stately business premises that they reallyabutted on the other side upon the faded and stagnant square whichwe had just quitted.

　　"Let me see," said Holmes, standing at the corner and glancingalong the line, "I should like just to remember the order of thehouses here.  It is a hobby of mine to have an exact knowledge ofLondon.  There is Mortimer's, the tobacconist, the littlenewspaper shop, the Coburg branch of the City and Suburban Bank,the Vegetarian Restaurant, and McFarlane's carriage-buildingdepot.  That carries us right on to the other block.  And now,Doctor, we've done our work, so it's time we had some play.  Asandwich and a cup of coffee, and then off to violin-land, whereall is sweetness and delicacy and harmony, and there are nored-headed clients to vex us with their conundrums."

　　My friend was an enthusiastic musician, being himself not onlya very capable performer but a composer of no ordinary merit.  Allthe afternoon he sat in the stalls wrapped in the most perfecthappiness, gently waving his long, thin fingers in time to themusic, while his gently smiling face and his languid, dreamy eyeswere as unlike those of Holmes, the sleuth-hound, Holmes therelentless, keen-witted, ready-handed criminal agent, as it waspossible to conceive.  In his singular character the dual naturealternately asserted itself, and his extreme exactness andastuteness represented, as I have often thought, the reactionagainst the poetic and contemplative mood which occasionallypredominated in him.  The swing of his nature took him fromextreme languor to devouring energy; and, as I knew well, he wasnever so truly formidable as when, for days on end, he had beenlounging in his armchair amid his improvisations and hisblack-letter editions.  Then it was that the lust of the chasewould suddenly come upon him, and that his brilliant reasoningpower would rise to the level of intuition, until those who wereunacquainted with his methods would look askance at him as on aman whose knowledge was not that of other mortals.  When I saw himthat afternoon so enwrapped in the music at St. James's Hall Ifelt that an evil time might be coming upon those whom he had sethimself to hunt down.

　　"You want to go home, no doubt, Doctor," he remarked as weemerged.

　　"Yes, it would be as well."

　　"And I have some business to do which will take some hours.This business at Coburg Square is serious."

　　"Why serious?"

　　"A considerable crime is in contemplation.  I have everyreason to believe that we shall be in time to stop it.  But to-daybeing Saturday rather complicates matters.  I shall want your helpto-night."

　　"At what time?"

　　"Ten will be early enough."

　　"I shall be at Baker Street at ten."

　　"Very well.  And, I say, Doctor, there may be some littledanger, so kindly put your army revolver in your pocket."  Hewaved his hand, turned on his heel, and disappeared in an instantamong the crowd.

　　I trust that I am not more dense than my neighbours, but I wasalways oppressed with a sense of my own stupidity in my dealingswith Sherlock Holmes.  Here I had heard what he had heard, I hadseen what he had seen, and yet from his words it was evident thathe saw clearly not only what had happened but what was about tohappen, while to me the whole business was still confused andgrotesque.  As I drove home to my house in Kensington I thoughtover it all, from the extraordinary story of the red-headed copierof the Encyclopaedia down to the visit to Saxe-Coburg Square, andthe ominous words with which he had parted from me.  What was thisnocturnal expedition, and why should I go armed?  Where were wegoing, and what were we to do?  I had the hint from Holmes thatthis smooth-faced pawnbroker's assistant was a formidable man--aman who might play a deep game.  I tried to puzzle it out, butgave it up in despair and set the matter aside until night shouldbring an explanation.

　　It was a quarter-past nine when I started from home and mademy way across the Park, and so through Oxford Street to BakerStreet.  Two hansoms were standing at the door, and as I enteredthe passage I heard the sound of voices from above.  On enteringhis room I found Holmes in animated conversation with two men, oneof whom I recognized as Peter Jones, the official police agent,while the other was a long, thin, sad-faced man, with a very shinyhat and oppressively respectable frock-coat.

　　"Ha! our party is complete," said Holmes, buttoning up hispea-jacket and taking his heavy hunting crop from the rack."Watson, I think you know Mr. Jones, of Scotland Yard?  Let meintroduce you to Mr. Merryweather, who is to be our companion into-night's adventure."

　　"We're hunting in couples again, Doctor, you see," said Jonesin his consequential way.  "Our friend here is a wonderful man forstarting a chase.  All he wants is an old dog to help him to dothe running down."

　　"I hope a wild goose may not prove to be the end of ourchase," observed Mr. Merryweather gloomily.

　　"You may place considerable confidence in Mr. Holmes, sir,"said the police agent loftily.  "He has his own little methods,which are, if he won't mind my saying so, just a little tootheoretical and fantastic, but he has the makings of a detectivein him.  It is not too much to say that once or twice, as in thatbusiness of the Sholto murder and the Agra treasure, he has beenmore nearly correct than the official force."

　　"Oh, if you say so, Mr. Jones, it is all right," said thestranger with deference.  "Still, I confess that I miss my rubber.It is the first Saturday night for seven-and-twenty years that Ihave not had my rubber."

　　"I think you will find," said Sherlock Holmes, "that you willplay for a higher stake to-night than you have ever done yet, andthat the play will be more exciting.  For you, Mr. Merryweather,the stake will be some 30,000 pounds; and for you, Jones, it will be theman upon whom you wish to lay your hands."

　　"John Clay, the murderer, thief, smasher, and forger.  He's ayoung man, Mr. Merryweather, but he is at the head of hisprofession, and I would rather have my bracelets on him than onany criminal in London.  He's a remarkable man, is young JohnClay.  His grandfather was a royal duke, and he himself has beento Eton and Oxford.  His brain is as cunning as his fingers, andthough we meet signs of him at every turn, we never know where tofind the man himself.  He'll crack a crib in Scotland one week,and be raising money to build an orphanage in Cornwall the next.I've been on his track for years and have never set eyes on himyet."

　　"I hope that I may have the pleasure of introducing youto-night.  I've had one or two little turns also with Mr. JohnClay, and I agree with you that he is at the head of hisprofession.  It is past ten, however, and quite time that westarted.  If you two will take the first hansom, Watson and I willfollow in the second."

　　Sherlock Holmes was not very communicative during the longdrive and lay back in the cab humming the tunes which he had heardin the afternoon.  We rattled through an endless labyrinth ofgas-lit streets until we emerged into Farrington Street."We are close there now," my friend remarked.  "This fellowMerryweather is a bank director, and personally interested in thematter.  I thought it as well to have Jones with us also.  He isnot a bad fellow, though an absolute imbecile in his profession.He has one positive virtue.  He is as brave as a bulldog and astenacious as a lobster if he gets his claws upon anyone.  Here weare, and they are waiting for us."

　　We had reached the same crowded thoroughfare in which we hadfound ourselves in the morning.  Our cabs were dismissed, and,following the guidance of Mr. Merryweather, we passed down anarrow passage and through a side door, which he opened for us.Within there was a small corridor, which ended in a very massiveiron gate.  This also was opened, and led down a flight of windingstone steps, which terminated at another formidable gate.  Mr.Merryweather stopped to light a lantern, and then conducted usdown a dark, earth-smelling passage, and so, after opening a thirddoor, into a huge vault or cellar, which was piled all round withcrates and massive boxes.

　　"You are not very vulnerable from above," Holmes remarked ashe held up the lantern and gazed about him.

　　"Nor from below," said Mr. Merryweather, striking his stickupon the flags which lined the floor.  "Why, dear me, it soundsquite hollow!" he remarked, looking up in surprise.

　　"I must really ask you to be a little more quiet!" said Holmesseverely.  "You have already imperilled the whole success of ourexpedition.  Might I beg that you would have the goodness to sitdown upon one of those boxes, and not to interfere?"

　　The solemn Mr. Merryweather perched himself upon a crate, witha very injured expression upon his face, while Holmes fell uponhis knees upon the floor and, with the lantern and a magnifyinglens, began to examine minutely the cracks between the stones.  Afew seconds sufficed to satisfy him, for he sprang to his feetagain and put his glass in his pocket.

　　"We have at least an hour before us," he remarked, "for theycan hardly take any steps until the good pawnbroker is safely inbed.  Then they will not lose a minute, for the sooner they dotheir work the longer time they will have for their escape.  Weare at present, Doctor--as no doubt you have divined--in thecellar of the City branch of one of the principal London banks.Mr. Merryweather is the chairman of directors, and he will explainto you that there are reasons why the more daring criminals ofLondon should take a considerable interest in this cellar atpresent."

　　"It is our French gold," whispered the director.  "We have hadseveral warnings that an attempt might be made upon it.""Your French gold?"

　　"Yes.  We had occasion some months ago to strengthen ourresources and borrowed for that purpose 30,000 napoleons from theBank of France.  It has become known that we have never hadoccasion to unpack the money, and that it is still lying in ourcellar.  The crate upon which I sit contains 2,000 napoleonspacked between layers of lead foil.  Our reserve of bullion ismuch larger at present than is usually kept in a single branchoffice, and the directors have had misgivings upon the subject.""Which were very well justified," observed Holmes.  "And nowit is time that we arranged our little plans.  I expect thatwithin an hour matters will come to a head.  In the meantime, Mr.Merryweather, we must put the screen over that dark lantern.""And sit in the dark?"

　　"I am afraid so.  I had brought a pack of cards in my pocket,and I thought that, as we were a partie carree, you might haveyour rubber after all.  But I see that the enemy's preparationshave gone so far that we cannot risk the presence of a light.And, first of all, we must choose our positions.  These are daringmen, and though we shall take them at a disadvantage, they may dous some harm unless we are careful.  I shall stand behind thiscrate, and do you conceal yourselves behind those.  Then, when Iflash a light upon them, close in swiftly.  If they fire, Watson,have no compunction about shooting them down."

　　I placed my revolver, cocked, upon the top of the wooden casebehind which I crouched.  Holmes shot the slide across the frontof his lantern and left us in pitch darkness--such an absolutedarkness as I have never before experienced.  The smell of hotmetal remained to assure us that the light was still there, readyto flash out at a moment's notice.  To me, with my nerves workedup to a pitch of expectancy, there was something depressing andsubduing in the sudden gloom, and in the cold dank air of thevault.

　　"They have but one retreat," whispered Holmes.  "That is backthrough the house into Saxe-Coburg Square.  I hope that you havedone what I asked you, Jones?"

　　"I have an inspector and two officers waiting at the frontdoor."

　　"Then we have stopped all the holes.  And now we must besilent and wait."

　　What a time it seemed!  From comparing notes afterwards it wasbut an hour and a quarter, yet it appeared to me that the nightmust have almost gone, and the dawn be breaking above us.  Mylimbs were weary and stiff, for I feared to change my position;yet my nerves were worked up to the highest pitch of tension, andmy hearing was so acute that I could not only hear the gentlebreathing of my companions, but I could distinguish the deeper,heavier in-breath of the bulky Jones from the thin, sighing noteof the bank director.  From my position I could look over the casein the direction of the floor.  Suddenly my eyes caught the glintof a light.

　　At first it was but a lurid spark upon the stone pavement.Then it lengthened out until it became a yellow line, and then,without any warning or sound, a gash seemed to open and a handappeared; a white, almost womanly hand, which felt about in thecentre of the little area of light.  For a minute or more thehand, with its writhing fingers, protruded out of the floor.  Thenit was withdrawn as suddenly as it appeared, and all was darkagain save the single lurid spark which marked a chink between thestones.

　　Its disappearance, however, was but momentary.  With a

　　rending, tearing sound, one of the broad, white stones turned overupon its side and left a square, gaping hole, through whichstreamed the light of a lantern.  Over the edge there peeped aclean-cut, boyish face, which looked keenly about it, and then,with a hand on either side of the aperture, drew itselfshoulder-high and waist-high, until one knee rested upon the edge.In another instant he stood at the side of the hole and washauling after him a companion, lithe and small like himself, witha pale face and a shock of very red hair.

　　"It's all clear," he whispered.  "Have you the chisel and thebags?  Great Scott!  Jump, Archie, jump, and I'll swing for it!"Sherlock Holmes had sprung out and seized the intruder by thecollar.  The other dived down the hole, and I heard the sound ofrending cloth as Jones clutched at his skirts.  The light flashedupon the barrel of a revolver, but Holmes's hunting crop came downon the man's wrist, and the pistol clinked upon the stone floor."It's no use, John Clay," said Holmes blandly.  "You have nochance at all."

　　"So I see," the other answered with the utmost coolness.  "Ifancy that my pal is all right, though I see you have got hiscoat-tails."

　　"There are three men waiting for him at the door," saidHolmes.

　　"Oh, indeed!  You seem to have done the thing very completely.I must compliment you."

　　"And I you," Holmes answered.  "Your red-headed idea was verynew and effective."

　　"You'll see your pal again presently," said Jones.  "He'squicker at climbing down holes than I am.  Just hold out while Ifix the derbies."

　　"I beg that you will not touch me with your filthy hands,"remarked our prisoner as the handcuffs clattered upon his wrists."You may not be aware that I have royal blood in my veins.  Havethe goodness, also, when you address me always to say `sir' and`please.'"

　　"All right," said Jones with a stare and a snigger.  "Well,would you please, sir, march upstairs, where we can get a cab tocarry your Highness to the police-station?"

　　"That is better," said John Clay serenely.  He made a sweepingbow to the three of us and walked quietly off in the custody ofthe detective.

　　"Really, Mr. Holmes," said Mr. Merryweather as we followedthem from the cellar, "I do not know how the bank can thank you orrepay you.  There is no doubt that you have detected and defeatedin the most complete manner one of the most determined attempts atbank robbery that have ever come within my experience.""I have had one or two little scores of my own to settle withMr. John Clay," said Holmes.  "I have been at some small expenseover this matter, which I shall expect the bank to refund, butbeyond that I am amply repaid by having had an experience which isin many ways unique, and by hearing the very remarkable narrativeof the Red-headed League."

　　"You see, Watson," he explained in the early hours of themorning as we sat over a glass of whisky and soda in Baker Street,"it was perfectly obvious from the first that the only possibleobject of this rather fantastic business of the advertisement ofthe League, and the copying of the Encyclopaedia, must be to getthis not over-bright pawnbroker out of the way for a number ofhours every day.  It was a curious way of managing it, but,really, it would be difficult to suggest a better.  The method wasno doubt suggested to Clay's ingenious mind by the colour of hisaccomplice's hair.  The 4 pound a week was a lure which must draw him,and what was it to them, who were playing for thousands?  They putin the advertisement, one rogue has the temporary office, theother rogue incites the man to apply for it, and together theymanage to secure his absence every morning in the week.  From thetime that I heard of the assistant having come for half wages, itwas obvious to me that he had some strong motive for securing thesituation."

　　"But how could you guess what the motive was?"

　　"Had there been women in the house, I should have suspected amere vulgar intrigue.  That, however, was out of the question.The man's business was a small one, and there was nothing in hishouse which could account for such elaborate preparations, andsuch an expenditure as they were at.  It must, then, be somethingout of the house.  What could it be?  I thought of the assistant'sfondness for photography, and his trick of vanishing into thecellar.  The cellar!  There was the end of this tangled clue.Then I made inquiries as to this mysterious assistant and foundthat I had to deal with one of the coolest and most daringcriminals in London.  He was doing something in the

　　cellar--something which took many hours a day for months on end.What could it be, once more?  I could think of nothing save thathe was running a tunnel to some other building.

　　"So far I had got when we went to visit the scene of action.I surprised you by beating upon the pavement with my stick.  I wasascertaining whether the cellar stretched out in front or behind.It was not in front.  Then I rang the bell, and, as I hoped, theassistant answered it.  We have had some skirmishes, but we hadnever set eyes upon each other before.  I hardly looked at hisface.  His knees were what I wished to see.  You must yourselfhave remarked how worn, wrinkled, and stained they were.  Theyspoke of those hours of burrowing.  The only remaining point waswhat they were burrowing for.  I walked round the corner, saw theCity and Suburban Bank abutted on our friend's premises, and feltthat I had solved my problem.  When you drove home after theconcert I called upon Scotland Yard and upon the chairman of thebank directors, with the result that you have seen."

　　"And how could you tell that they would make their attemptto-night?" I asked.

　　"Well, when they closed their League offices that was a signthat they cared no longer about Mr. Jabez Wilson's presence--inother words, that they had completed their tunnel.  But it wasessential that they should use it soon, as it might be discovered,or the bullion might be removed.  Saturday would suit them betterthan any other day, as it would give them two days for theirescape.  For all these reasons I expected them to come to-night.""You reasoned it out beautifully," I exclaimed in unfeignedadmiration.  "It is so long a chain, and yet every link ringstrue."

　　"It saved me from ennui," he answered, yawning.  "Alas!  Ialready feel it closing in upon me.  My life is spent in one longeffort to escape from the commonplaces of existence.  These littleproblems help me to do so."

　　"And you are a benefactor of the race," said I.

　　He shrugged his shoulders.  "Well, perhaps, after all, it isof some little use," he remarked.  "`L'homme c'est rien--l'oeuvrec'est tout,' as Gustave Flaubert wrote to George Sand.".1893

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE REIGATE PUZZLE

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　It was some time before the health of my friend Mr. SherlockHolmes recovered from the strain caused by his immense exertions inthe spring of '87. The whole question of the Netherland-SumatraCompany and of the colossal schemes of Baron Maupertuis are too recentin the minds of the public, and are too intimately concerned withpolitics and finance to be fitting subjects for this series ofsketches. They led, however, in an indirect fashion to a singularand complex problem which gave my friend an opportunity ofdemonstrating the value of a fresh weapon among the many with which hewaged his lifelong battle against crime.

　　On referring to my notes I see that it was upon the fourteenth ofApril that I received a telegram from Lyons which informed me thatHolmes was lying ill in the Hotel Dulong. Within twenty-four hours Iwas in his sick-room and was relieved to find that there was nothingformidable in his symptoms. Even his iron constitution, however, hadbroken down under the strain of an investigation which had extendedover two months, during which period he had never worked less thanfifteen hours a day and had more than once, as he assured me, keptto his task for five days at a stretch. Even the triumphant issue ofhis labours could not save him from reaction after so terrible anexertion, and at a time when Europe was ringing with his name and whenhis room was literally ankle-deep with congratulatory telegrams Ifound him a prey to the blackest depression. Even the knowledge thathe had succeeded where the police of three countries had failed, andthat he had outmaneuvered at every point the most accomplishedswindler in Europe, was insufficient to rouse him from his nervousprostration.

　　Three days later we were back in Baker Street together; but it wasevident that my friend would be much the better for a change, andthe thought of a week of springtime in the country was full ofattractions to me also. My old friend, Colonel Hayter, who had comeunder my professional care in Afghanistan, had now taken a housenear Reigate in Surrey and had frequently asked me to come down to himupon a visit. On the last occasion he had remarked that if my friendwould only come with me he would be glad to extend his hospitalityto him also. A little diplomacy was needed, but when Holmes understoodthat the establishment was a bachelor one, and that he would beallowed the fullest freedom, he fell in with my plans and a week afterour return from Lyons we were under the colonel's roof. Hayter was afine old soldier who had seen much of the world, and he soon found, asI had expected, that Holmes and he had much in common.

　　On the evening of our arrival we were sitting in the colonel'sgun-room after dinner, Holmes stretched upon the sofa, while Hayterand I looked over his little armory of Eastern weapons."By the way," said he suddenly, "I think I'll take one of thesepistols upstairs with me in case we have an alarm."

　　"An alarm!" said I.

　　"Yes, we've had a scare in this part lately. Old Acton, who is oneof our county magnates, had his house broken into last Monday. Nogreat damage done, but the fellows are still at large.""No clue?" asked Holmes, cocking his eye at the colonel."None as yet. But the affair is a petty one, one of our littlecountry crimes, which must seem too small for your attention, Mr.Holmes, after this great international affair."

　　Holmes waved away the compliment, though his smile showed that ithad pleased him.

　　"Was there any feature of interest?"

　　"I fancy not. The thieves ransacked the library and got verylittle for their pains. The whole place was turned upside down,drawers burst open, and presses ransacked, with the result that an oddvolume of Pope's Homer, two plated candlesticks, an ivoryletter-weight, a small oak barometer, and a ball of twine are all thathave vanished."

　　"What an extraordinary assortment!" I exclaimed.

　　"Oh, the fellows evidently grabbed hold of everything they couldget."

　　Holmes grunted from the sofa.

　　"The county police ought to make something of that" said he; "why,it is surely obvious that-"

　　But i held up a warning finger.

　　"You are here for a rest, my dear fellow. For heaven's sake don'tget started on a new problem when your nerves are all in shreds."Holmes shrugged his shoulders with a glance of comic resignationtowards the colonel, and the talk drifted away into less dangerouschannels.

　　It was destined, however, that all my professional caution should bewasted, for next morning the problem obtruded itself upon us in such away that it was impossible to ignore it, and our country visit tooka turn which neither of us could have anticipated. We were atbreakfast when the colonel's butler rushed in with all his proprietyshaken out of him.

　　"Have you heard the news, sir?" he gasped. "At the Cunningham's,sir!"

　　"Burglary!" cried the colonel, with his coffee-cup in mid-air."Murder!"

　　The colonel whistled. "By Jove!" said he. "Who's killed, then? TheJ. P. or his son?"

　　"Neither, sir. It was William the coachman. Shot through theheart, sir, and never spoke again."

　　"Who shot him, then?"

　　"The burglar, sir. He was off like a shot and got clean away. He'djust broke in at the pantry window when William came on him and methis end in saving his master's property."

　　"What time?"

　　"It was last night, sir, somewhere about twelve."

　　"Ah, then, we'll step over afterwards," said the colonel, coollysettling down to his breakfast again. "It's a baddish business," headded when the butler had gone; "he's our leading man about here, isold Cunningham, and a very decent fellow too. He'll be cut up overthis, for the man has been in his service for years and was a goodservant. It's evidently the same villains who broke into Acton's.""And stole that very singular collection," said Holmes thoughtfully."Precisely."

　　"Hum! It may prove the simplest matter in the world, but all thesame at first glance this is just a little curious, is it not? Agang of burglar acting in the country might be expected to vary thescene of their operations, and not to crack two cribs in the samedistrict within a few days. When you spoke last night of takingprecautions I remember that it passed through my mind that this wasprobably the last parish in England to which the thief or thieveswould be likely to turn their attention-which shows that I havestill much to learn."

　　"I fancy it's some local practitioner," said the colonel. "In thatcase, of course, Acton's and Cunningham's are just the places he wouldgo for, since they are far the largest about here."

　　"And richest?"

　　"Well, they ought to be, but they've had a lawsuit for some yearswhich has sucked the blood out of both of them, I fancy. Old Acton hassome claim on half Cunningham's estate, and the lawyers have been atit with both hands."

　　"If it's a local villain there should not be much difficulty inrunning him down," said Holmes with a yawn. "All right, Watson, Idon't intend to meddle."

　　"Inspector Forrester, sir," said the butler, throwing open the door.The official, a smart, keen-faced young fellow, stepped into theroom. "Good morning, Colonel," said he. "I hope I don't intrude, butwe hear that Mr. Holmes of Baker Street is here."

　　The colonel waved his hand towards my friend, and the inspectorbowed.

　　"We thought that perhaps you would care to step across, Mr. Holmes.""The fates are against you, Watson," said he, laughing. "We werechatting about the matter when you came in, Inspector. Perhaps you canlet us have a few details." As he leaned back in his chair in thefamiliar attitude I knew that the case was hopeless.

　　"We had no clue in the Acton affair. But here we have plenty to goon, and there's no doubt it is the same party in each case. The manwas seen."

　　"Ah!"

　　"Yes, sir. But he was off like a deer after the shot that killedpoor William Kirwan was fired. Mr. Cunningham saw him from the bedroomwindow, and Mr. Alec Cunningham saw him from the back passage. Itwas quarter to twelve when the alarm broke out. Mr. Cunningham hadjust got into bed, and Mr. Alec was smoking a pipe in hisdressing-gown. They both heard William, the coachman, calling forhelp, and Mr. Alec ran down to see what was the matter. The backdoor was open, and as he came to the foot of the stairs he saw two menwrestling together outside. One of them fired a shot, the otherdropped, and the murderer rushed across the garden and over the hedge.Mr. Cunningham, looking out of his bedroom, saw the fellow as hegained the road, but lost sight of him at once. Mr. Alec stopped tosee if he could help the dying man, and so the villain got clean away.Beyond the fact that he was a middle-sized man and dressed in somedark stuff, we have no personal clue, but we are making energeticinquiries, and if he is a stranger we shall soon find him out.""What was this William doing there? Did he say anything before hedied?"

　　"Not a word. He lives at the lodge with his mother, and as he wasa very faithful fellow we imagine that he walked up to the housewith the intention of seeing that all was right there. Of coursethis Acton business has put everyone on their guard. The robber musthave just burst open the door-the lock has been forced-when Williamcame upon him."

　　"Did William say anything to his mother before going out?""She is very old and deaf, and we can get no information from her.The shock has made her half-witted, but I understand that she wasnever very bright. There is one very important circumstance,however. Look at this!"

　　He took a small piece of torn paper from a notebook and spread itout upon his knee.

　　"This was found between the finger and thumb of the dead man. Itappears to be a fragment torn from a larger sheet. You will observethat the hour mentioned upon it is the very time at which the poorfellow met his fate. You see that his murderer might have torn therest of the sheet from him or he might have taken this fragment fromthe murderer. It reads almost as though it were an appointment."Holmes took up the scrap of paper, a facsimile of which is herereproduced.

　　(See illustration.)

　　"Presuming that it is an appointment," continued the inspector,"it is of course a conceivable theory that this William Kirwan, thoughhe had the reputation of being an honest man, may have been inleague with the thief. He may have met him there, may even have helpedhim to break in the door, and then they may have fallen out betweenthemselves."

　　"This writing is of extraordinary interest," said Holmes, who hadbeen examining it with intense concentration. "These are much deeperwaters than I had thought." He sank his head upon his hands, while theinspector smiled at the effect which his case had had upon thefamous London specialist.

　　"Your last remark," said Holmes presently, "as to the possibility ofthere being an understanding between the burglar and the servant,and this being a note of appointment from one to the other, is aningenious and not entirely impossible supposition. But this writingopens up-" He sank his head into his hands again and remained for someminutes in the deepest thought. When he raised his face again I wassurprised to see that his cheek was tinged with colour, and his eyesas bright as before his illness. He sprang to his feet with all hisold energy.

　　"I'll tell you what," said he, "I should like to have a quiet littleglance into the details of this case. There is something in it whichfascinates me extremely. If you will permit me, Colonel, I willleave my friend Watson and you, and I will step round with theinspector to test the truth of one or two little fancies of mine. Iwill be with you again in half an hour."

　　An hour and a half had elapsed before the inspector returned alone."Mr. Holmes is walking up and down in the field outside," said he."He wants us all four to go up to the house together."

　　"To Mr. Cunningham's?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"What for?"

　　The inspector shrugged his shoulders. "I don't quite know, sir.Between ourselves, I think Mr. Holmes has not quite got over hisillness yet. He's been behaving very queerly, and he is very muchexcited."

　　"I don't think you need alarm yourself," said I. "I have usuallyfound that there was method in his madness."

　　"Some folk might say there was madness in his method," mutteredthe inspector. "But he's all on fire to start, Colonel, so we had bestgo out if you are ready."

　　We found Holmes pacing up and down in the field, his chin sunkupon his breast, and his hands thrust into his trousers pockets."The matter grows in interest," said he. "Watson, your countrytrip has been a distinct success. I have had a charming morning.""You have been up to the scene of the crime, I understand," said thecolonel.

　　"Yes, the inspector and I have made quite a little reconnaissancetogether."

　　"Any success?'

　　"Well, we have seen some very interesting things. I'll tell you whatwe did as we walk. First of all, we saw the body of this unfortunateman. He certainly died from a revolver wound as reported.""Had you doubted it then?"

　　"Oh, it is as well to test everything. Our inspection was notwasted. We then had an interview with Mr. Cunningham and his son,who were able to point out the exact spot where the murderer hadbroken through the garden-hedge in his flight. That was of greatinterest."

　　"Naturally."

　　"Then we had a look at this poor fellow's mother. We could get noinformation from her, however, as she is very old and feeble.""And what is the result of your investigations?"

　　"The conviction that the crime is a very peculiar one. Perhaps ourvisit now may do something to make it less obscure. I think that weare both agreed, Inspector, that the fragment of paper in the deadman's hand, bearing, as it does, the very hour of his death writtenupon it is of extreme importance."

　　"It should give a clue, Mr. Holmes."

　　"It does give a clue. Whoever wrote that note was the man whobrought William Kirwan out of his bed at that hour. But where is therest of that sheet of paper?"

　　"I examined the ground carefully in the hope of finding it," said theinspector.

　　"It was torn out of the dead man's hand. Why was someone so anxiousto get possession of it? Because it incriminated him. And what wouldhe do with it? Thrust it into his pocket, most likely, nevernoticing that a corner of it had been left in the grip of thecorpse. If we could get the rest of that sheet it is obvious that weshould have gone a long way towards solving the mystery.""Yes, but how can we get at the criminal's pocket before we catchthe criminal?"

　　"Well, well, it was worth thinking over. Then there is anotherobvious point. The note was sent to William. The man who wrote itcould not have taken it; otherwise, of course, he might have deliveredhis own message by word of mouth. Who brought the note, then? Or didit come through the post?"

　　"I have made inquiries," said the inspector. "William received aletter by the afternoon post yesterday. The envelope was destroyedby him."

　　"Excellent!" cried Holmes, clapping the inspector on the back."You've seen the postman. It is a pleasure to work with you. Well,here is the lodge, and if you will come up, Colonel, I will show youthe scene of the crime."

　　We passed the pretty cottage where the murdered man had lived andwalked up an oak-lined avenue to the fine old Queen Anne house,which bears the date of Malplaquet upon the lintel of the door. Holmesand the inspector led us round it until we came to the side gate,which is separated by a stretch of garden from the hedge which linesthe road. A constable was standing at the kitchen door."Throw the door open, officer," said Holmes. "Now, it was on thosestairs that Young Mr. Cunningham stood and saw the two menstruggling just where we are. Old Mr. Cunningham was at thatwindow-the second on the left-and he saw the fellow get away just tothe left of that bush. So did the son. They are both sure of it onaccount of the bush. Then Mr. Alec ran out and knelt beside thewounded man. The ground is very hard, you see, and there are nomarks to guide us." As he spoke two men came down the garden path,from round the angle of the house. The one was an elderly man, witha strong, deep-lined, heavy-eyed face; the other a dashing youngfellow, whose bright, smiling expression and showy dress were instrange contrast with the business which had brought us there."Still at it, then?" said he to Holmes. "I thought you Londonerswere never at fault. You don't seem to be so very quick, after all.""Ah, you must give us a little time," said Holmes good-humouredly."You'll want it," said young Alec Cunningham. "Why, I don't see thatwe have any clue at all."

　　"There's only one," answered the inspector. "We thought that if wecould only find-Good heavens, Mr. Holmes! what is the matter?"My poor friend's face had suddenly assumed the most dreadfulexpression. His eyes rolled upward, his features writhed in agony, andwith a suppressed groan he dropped on his face upon the ground.Horrified at the suddenness and severity of the attack, we carried himinto the kitchen, where he lay back in a large chair and breathedheavily for some minutes. Finally, with a shamefaced apology for hisweakness, he rose once more.

　　"Watson would tell you that I have only just recovered from a severeillness," he explained. "I am liable to these sudden nervous attacks.""Shall I send you home in my trap?" asked old Cunningham."Well, since I am here, there is one point on which I should like tofeel sure. We can very easily verify it."

　　"What is it?"

　　"Well, it seems to me that it is just possible that the arrival ofthis poor fellow William was not before, but after, the entrance ofthe burglar into the house. You appear to take it for granted thatalthough the door was forced the robber never got in."

　　"I fancy that is quite obvious," said Mr. Cunningham gravely."Why, my son Alec had not yet gone to bed, and he would certainly haveheard anyone moving about."

　　"Where was he sitting?"

　　"I was smoking in my dressing-room."

　　"Which window is that?"

　　"The last on the left, next my father's."

　　"Both of your lamps were lit, of course?"

　　"Undoubtedly."

　　"There are some very singular points here," said Holmes, smiling."Is it not extraordinary that a burglar-and a burglar who had someprevious experience- should deliberately break into a house at atime when he could see from the lights that two of the family werestill afoot?"

　　"He must have been a cool hand."

　　"Well, of course, if the case were not an odd one we should not havebeen driven to ask you for an explanation," said young Mr. Alec."But as to your ideas that the man had robbed the house before Williamtackled him, I think it a most absurd notion. Wouldn't we have foundthe place disarranged and missed the things which he had taken?""It depends on what the things were," said Holmes. "You mustremember that we are dealing with a burglar who is a very peculiarfellow, and who appears to work on lines of his own. Look, forexample, at the queer lot of things which he took from Acton's-whatwas it?-a ball of string, a letter-weight, and I don't know what otherodds and ends."

　　"Well, we are quite in your hands, Mr. Holmes," said old Cunningham."Anything which you or the inspector may suggest will most certainlybe done."

　　"In the first place," said Holmes, "I should like you to offer areward-coming from yourself, for the officials may take a littletime before they would agree upon the sum, and these things cannotbe done too promptly. I have jotted down the form here, if you wouldnot mind signing it. Fifty pounds was quite enough, I thought.""I would willingly give five hundred," said the J. P., taking theslip of paper and the pencil which Holmes handed to him. "This isnot quite correct however," he added, glancing over the document."I wrote it rather hurriedly."

　　"You see you begin, 'Whereas, at about a quarter to one on Tuesdaymorning an attempt was made,' and so on. It was at a quarter totwelve, as a matter of fact."

　　I was pained at the mistake, for I knew how keenly Holmes would feelany slip of the kind. It was his specialty to be accurate as tofact, but his recent illness had shaken him, and this one littleincident was enough to show me that he was still far from beinghimself. He was obviously embarrassed for an instant, while theinspector raised his eyebrows, and Alec Cunningham burst into a laugh.The old gentleman corrected the mistake, however, and handed the paperback to Holmes.

　　"Get it printed as soon as possible," he said; "I think your idea isan excellent one."

　　Holmes put the slip of paper carefully away into his pocketbook."And now," said he, "it really would be a good thing that weshould all go over the house together and make certain that thisrather erratic burglar did not, after all, carry anything away withhim."

　　Before entering, Holmes made an examination of the door which hadbeen forced. It was evident that a chisel or strong knife had beenthrust in, and the lock forced back with it. We could see the marks inthe wood where it had been pushed in.

　　"You don't use bars, then?" he asked.

　　"We have never found it necessary."

　　"You don't keep a dog?"

　　"Yes, but he is chained on the other side of the house.""When do the servants go to bed?"

　　"About ten."

　　"I understand that William was usually in bed also at that hour?""Yes."

　　"It is singular that on this particular night he should have beenup. Now, I should be very glad if you would have the kindness toshow us over the house, Mr. Cunningham."

　　A stone-flagged passage, with the kitchens branching away from it,led by a wooden staircase directly to the first floor of the house. Itcame out upon the landing opposite to a second more ornamental stairwhich came up from the front hall. Out of this landing opened thedrawing-room and several bedrooms, including those of Mr. Cunninghamand his son. Holmes walked slowly, taking keen note of thearchitecture of the house. I could tell from his expression that hewas on a hot scent and yet I could not in the least imagine in whatdirection his inferences were leading him.

　　"My good sir," said Mr. Cunningham, with some impatience, "this issurely very unnecessary. That is my room at the end of the stairs, andmy son's is the one beyond it. I leave it to your judgment whetherit was possible for the thief to have come up here withoutdisturbing us."

　　"You must try round and get on a fresh scent, I fancy," said the sonwith a rather malicious smile.

　　"Still, I must ask you to humour me a little further. I should like,for example, to see how far the windows of the bedrooms command thefront. This, I understand, is your son's room"-he pushed open thedoor-"and that, I presume is the dressing-room in which he sat smokingwhen the alarm was given. Where does the window of that look outto?" He stepped across the bedroom, pushed open the door, andglanced round the other chamber.

　　"I hope that you are satisfied now?" said Mr. Cunningham tartly."Thank you, I think I have seen all that I wished."

　　"Then if it is really necessary we can go into my room.""If it is not too much trouble."

　　The J. P. shrugged his shoulders and led the way into his ownchamber, which was a plainly furnished and commonplace room. As wemoved across it in the direction of the window, Holmes fell back untilhe and I were the last of the group. Near the foot of the bed stooda dish of oranges and a carafe of water. As we passed it Holmes, to myunutterable astonishment, leaned over in front of me anddeliberately knocked the whole thing over. The glass smashed into athousand pieces and the fruit rolled about into every corner of theroom.

　　"You've done it now, Watson," said he coolly. "A pretty messyou've made of the carpet."

　　I stooped in some confusion and began to pick up the fruit,understanding for some reason my companion desired me to take theblame upon myself. The others did the same and set the table on itslegs again.

　　"Hullo!" cried the inspector, "where's he got to?"

　　Holmes had disappeared.

　　"Wait here an instant," said young Alec Cunningham. "The fellow isoff his head, in my opinion. Come with me, father, and see where hehas got to!"

　　They rushed out of the room, leaving the inspector, the colonel, andme staring at each other.

　　"'Pon my word, I am inclined to agree with Master Alec," said theofficial. "It may be the effect of this illness, but it seems to methat-"

　　His words were cut short by a sudden scream of "Help! Help! Murder!"With a thrill I recognized the voice as that of my friend. I rushedmadly from the room on to the landing. The cries, which had sunkdown into a hoarse, inarticulate shouting, came from the room which wehad first visited. I dashed in, and on into the dressing-roombeyond. The two Cunninghams were bending over the prostrate figureof Sherlock Holmes, the younger clutching his throat with bothhands, while the elder seemed to be twisting one of his wrists. Inan instant the three of us had torn them away from him, and Holmesstaggered to his feet, very pale and evidently greatly exhausted."Arrest these men, Inspector," he gasped.

　　"On what charge?"

　　"That of murdering their coachman, William Kirwan."

　　The inspector stared about him in bewilderment. "Oh, come now, Mr.Holmes," said he at last, "I'm sure you don't really mean to-""Tut, man, look at their faces!" cried Holmes curtly.

　　Never certainly have I seen a plainer confession of guilt upon humancountenances. The older man seemed numbed and dazed, with a heavy,sullen expression upon his strongly marked face. The son, on the otherhand, had dropped all that jaunty, dashing style which hadcharacterized him, and the ferocity of a dangerous wild beastgleamed in his dark eyes and distorted his handsome features. Theinspector said nothing, but, stepping to the door, he blew hiswhistle. Two of his constables came at the call.

　　"I have no alternative, Mr. Cunningham," said he. "I trust that thismay all prove to be an absurd mistake, but you can see that-Ah,would you? Drop it!" He struck out with his hand, and a revolver whichthe younger man was in the act of cocking clattered down upon thefloor.

　　"Keep that," said Holmes, quietly putting his foot upon it; "youwill find it useful at the trial. But this is what we reallywanted." He held up a little crumpled piece of paper.

　　"The remainder of the sheet!" cried the inspector.

　　"Precisely."

　　"And where was it?"

　　"Where I was sure it must be. I'll make the whole matter clear toyou presently. I think, Colonel, that you and Watson might return now,and I will be with you again in an hour at the furthest. The inspectorand I must have a word with the prisoners, but you will certainlysee me back at luncheon time."

　　Sherlock Holmes was as good as his word, for about one o'clock herejoined us in the colonel's smoking-room. He was accompanied by alittle elderly gentleman, who was introduced to me as the Mr. Actonwhose house had been the scene of the original burglary."I wished Mr. Acton to be present while I demonstrated this smallmatter to you," said Holmes, "for it is natural that he should takea keen interest in the details. I am afraid, my dear Colonel, that youmust regret the hour that you took in such a stormy petrel as I am.""On the contrary," answered the colonel warmly, "I consider it thegreatest privilege to have been permitted to study your methods ofworking. I confess that they quite surpass my expectations, and that Iam utterly unable to account for your result. I have not yet seenthe vestige of a clue."

　　"I am afraid that my explanation may disillusion you, but it hasalways been my habit to hide none of my methods, either from my friendWatson or from anyone who might take an intelligent interest inthem. But, first, as I am rather shaken by the knocking about whichI had in the dressing-room, I think that I shall help myself to a dashof your brandy, Colonel. My strength has been rather tried of late.""I trust you had no more of those nervous attacks."

　　Sherlock Holmes laughed heartily. "We will come to that in itsturn," said he. "I will lay an account of the case before you in itsdue order, showing you the various points which guided me in mydecision. Pray interrupt me if there is any inference which is notperfectly clear to you.

　　"It is of the highest importance in the art of detection to beable to recognize, out of a number of facts, which are incidentaland which vital. Otherwise your energy and attention must bedissipated instead of being concentrated. Now, in this case therewas not the slightest doubt in my mind from the first that the keyof the whole matter must be looked for in the scrap of paper in thedead man's hand.

　　"Before going into this, I would draw your attention to the factthat, if Alec Cunningham's narrative was correct, and if theassailant, after shooting William Kirwan, had instantly fled, thenit obviously could not be he who tore the paper from the dead man'shand. But if it was not he, it must have been Alec Cunningham himself,for by the time that the old man had descended several servants wereupon the scene. The point is a simple one, but the inspector hadoverlooked it because he had started with the supposition that thesecounty magnates had had nothing to do with the matter. Now, I make apoint of never having any prejudices, and of following docilelywherever fact may lead me, and so, in the very first stage of theinvestigation, I found myself looking a little askance at the partwhich had been played by Mr. Alec Cunningham.

　　"And now I made a very careful examination of the corner of paperwhich the inspector had submitted to us. It was at once clear to methat it formed part of a very remarkable document. Here it is. Doyou not now observe something very suggestive about it?""It has a very irregular look," said the colonel.

　　"My dear sir," cried Holmes, "there cannot be the least doubt in theworld that it has been written by two persons doing alternate words.When I draw your attention to the strong t's of 'at' and 'to,' and askyou to compare them with the weak ones of 'quarter' and 'twelve,'you will instantly recognize the fact. A very brief analysis ofthese four words would enable you to say with the utmost confidencethat the 'learn' and the 'maybe' are written in the stronger hand, andthe 'what' in the weaker."

　　"By Jove, it's as clear as day!" cried the colonel. "Why on earthshould two men write a letter in such a fashion?"

　　"Obviously the business was a bad one, and one of the men whodistrusted the other was determined that, whatever was done, eachshould have an equal hand in it. Now, of the two men, it is clear thatthe one who wrote the 'at' and 'to' was the ringleader.'"How do you get at that?"

　　"We might deduce it from the mere character of the one hand ascompared with the other. But we have more assured reasons than thatfor supposing it. If you examine this scrap with attention you willcome to the conclusion that the man with the stronger hand wrote allhis words first, leaving blanks for the other to fill up. These blankswere not always sufficient% and you can see that the second man hada squeeze to fit his 'quarter' in between the 'at' and the 'to,'showing that the latter were already written. The man who wrote allhis words first is undoubtedly the man who planned the affair.""Excellent!" cried Mr. Acton.

　　"But very superficial," said Holmes. "We come now, however, to apoint which is of importance. You may not be aware that thededuction of a man's age from his writing is one which has beenbrought to considerable accuracy by experts. In normal cases one canplace a man in his true decade with tolerable confidence. I say normalcases, because ill-health and physical weakness reproduce the signs ofold age, even when the invalid is a youth. In this case, looking atthe bold, strong hand of the one, and the rather broken-backedappearance of the other, which still retains its legibility althoughthe t's have begun to lose their crossing, we can say that the one wasa young man and the other was advanced in years without beingpositively decrepit."

　　"Excellent!" Cried Mr. Acton again.

　　"There is a further point, however, which is subtler and ofgreater interest. There is something in common between these hands.They belong to men who are blood-relatives. It may be most obviousto you in the Greek e's, but to me there are many small points whichindicate the same thing. I have no doubt at all that a familymannerism can be traced in these two specimens of writing. I amonly, of course, giving you the leading results now of myexamination of the paper. There were twenty-three other deductionswhich would be of more interest to experts than to you. They alltend to deepen the impression upon my mind that the Cunninghams,father and son, had written this letter.

　　"Having got so far, my next step was, of course, to examine into thedetails of the crime, and to see how far they would help us. I went upto the house with the inspector and saw all that was to be seen. Thewound upon the dead man was, as I was able to determine withabsolute confidence, fired from a revolver at the distance ofsomething over four yards. There was no powder-blackening on theclothes. Evidently, therefore, Alec Cunningham had lied when he saidthat the two men were struggling when the shot was fired. Again,both father and son agreed as to the place where the man escapedinto the road. At that point, however, as it happens, there is abroadish ditch, moist at the bottom. As there were no indications ofboot-marks about this ditch, I was absolutely sure not only that theCunninghams had again lied but that there had never been any unknownman upon the scene at all.

　　"And now I have to consider the motive of this singular crime. Toget at this, I endeavoured first of all to solve the reason of theoriginal burglary at Mr. Acton's. I understood, from something whichthe colonel told us, that a lawsuit had been going on between you, Mr.Acton, and the Cunninghams. Of course, it instantly occurred to methat they had broken into your library with the intention of gettingat some document which might be of importance in the case.""Precisely so," said Mr. Acton. "There can be no possible doubt asto their intentions. I have the clearest claim upon half of theirpresent estate, and if they could have found a single paper-which,fortunately, was in the strong-box of my solicitors-they wouldundoubtedly have crippled our case."

　　"There you are," said Holmes, smiling. "It was a dangerous, recklessattempt in which I seem to trace the influence of young Alec. Havingfound nothing, they tried to divert suspicion by making it appear tobe an ordinary burglary, to which end they carried off whatever theycould lay their hands upon. That is all clear enough, but there wasmuch that was still obscure. What I wanted, above all, was to getthe missing part of that note. I was certain that Alec had torn it outof the dead man's hand, and almost certain that he must have thrust itinto the pocket of his dressing-gown. Where else could he have put it?The only question was whether it was still there. It was worth aneffort to find out, and for that object we all went up to the house."The Cunninghams joined us, as you doubtless remember, outside thekitchen door. It was, of course, of the very first importance thatthey should not be reminded of the existence of this paper,otherwise they would naturally destroy it without delay. The inspectorwas about to tell them the importance which we attached to it when, bythe luckiest chance in the world, I tumbled down in a sort of fitand so changed the conversation."

　　"Good heavens!" cried the colonel, laughing, "do you mean to say allour sympathy was wasted and your fit an imposture?"

　　"Speaking professionally, it was admirably done," cried I, lookingin amazement at this man who was forever confounding me with somenew phase of his astuteness.

　　"It is an art which is often useful," said he. "When I recovered Imanaged, by a device which had perhaps some little merit of ingenuity,to get old Cunningham to write the word 'twelve,' so that I mightcompare it with the 'twelve' upon the paper. "

　　"Oh, what an ass I have been!" I exclaimed.

　　"I could see that you were commiserating me over my weakness,"said Holmes, laughing. "I was sorry to cause you the sympatheticpain which I know that you felt. We then went upstairs together,and, having entered the room and seen the dressing-gown hanging upbehind the door, I contrived, by upsetting a table, to engage theirattention for the moment and slipped back to examine the pockets. Ihad hardly got the paper, however-which was, as I had expected, in oneof them-when the two Cunninghams were on me, and would, I verilybelieve, have murdered me then and there but for your prompt andfriendly aid. As it is, I feel that young man's grip on my throat now,and the father has twisted my wrist round in the effort to get thepaper out of my hand. They saw that I must know all about it, you see,and the sudden change from absolute security to complete despairmade them perfectly desperate.

　　"I had a little talk with old Cunningham afterwards as to themotive of the crime. He was tractable enough, though his son was aperfect demon, ready to blow out his own or anybody else's brains ifhe could have got to his revolver. When Cunningham saw that the caseagainst him was so strong he lost all heart and made a clean breast ofeverything. It seems that William had secretly followed his twomasters on the night when they made their raid upon Mr. Acton's and,having thus got them into his power, proceeded, under threats ofexposure, to levy blackmail upon them. Mr. Alec, however, was adangerous man to play games of that sort with. It was a stroke ofpositive genius on his part to see in the burglary scare which wasconvulsing the countryside an opportunity of plausibly getting ridof the man whom he feared. William was decoyed up and shot, and hadthey only got the whole of the note and paid a little more attentionto detail in their accessories, it is very possible that suspicionmight never have been aroused.

　　"And the note?" I asked.

　　Sherlock Holmes placed the subjoined paper before us.

　　(See illustration.)

　　"It is very much the sort of thing that I expected," said he. "Ofcourse, we do not yet know what the relations may have been betweenAlec Cunningham, William Kirwan, and Annie Morrison. The resultshows that the trap was skilfully baited. I am sure that you cannotfail to be delighted with the traces of heredity shown in the p'sand in the tails of the g's. The absence of the i-dots in the oldman's writing is also most characteristic. Watson, I think our quietrest in the country has been a distinct success, and I shall certainlyreturn much invigorated to Baker Street to-morrow."

　　THE END

　　.

　　1893

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE STOCK-BROKER'S CLERK

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　The Stock-Broker's Clerk

　　Shortly after my marriage I had bought a connection in thePaddington district. Old Mr. Farquhar, from whom I purchased it, hadat one time an excellent general practice; but his age, and anaffliction of the nature of St. Vitus's dance from which hesuffered, had very much thinned it. The public not unnaturally goes onthe principle that he who would heal others must himself be whole, andlooks askance at the curative powers of the man whose own case isbeyond the reach of his drugs. Thus as my predecessor weakened hispractice declined, until when I purchased it from him it had sunk fromtwelve hundred to little more than three hundred a year. I hadconfidence, however, in my own youth and energy and was convinced thatin a very few years the concern would be as flourishing as ever.For three months after taking over the practice I was kept veryclosely at work and saw little of my friend Sherlock Holmes, for I wastoo busy to visit Baker Street and he seldom went anywhere himselfsave upon professional business. I was surprised, therefore, when, onemorning in June, as I sat reading the British Medical Journal afterbreakfast, I heard a ring at the bell, followed by the high,somewhat strident tones of my old companion's voice.

　　"Ah, my dear Watson," said he, striding into the room, "I am verydelighted to see you! I trust that Mrs. Watson has entirelyrecovered from all the little excitements connected with our adventureof the Sign of Four."

　　"Thank you, we are both very well," said I, shaking him warmly bythe hand.

　　"And I hope, also," he continued, sitting down in the rocking-chair,"that the cares of medical practice have not entirely obliteratedthe interest which you used to take in our little deductive problems.""On the contrary," I answered, "it was only last night that I waslooking over my old notes, and classifying some of our past results.""I trust that you don't consider your connection closed.""Not at all. I should wish nothing better than to have some moreof such experiences."

　　"To-day, for example?"

　　"Yes, to-day, if you like."

　　"And as far off as Birmingham?"

　　"Certainly, if you wish it."

　　"And the practice?"

　　"I do my neighbour's when he goes. He is always ready to work offthe debt."

　　"Ha! nothing could be better," said Holmes, leaning back in hischair and looking keenly at me from under his half-closed lids. "Iperceive that you have been unwell lately. Summer colds are always alittle trying."

　　"I was confined to the house by a severe chill for three days lastweek. I thought, however, that I had cast off every trace of it.""So you have. You look remarkably robust."

　　"How, then, did you know of it?"

　　"My dear fellow, you know my methods."

　　"You deduced it, then?"

　　"Certainly."

　　"And from what?"

　　"From your slippers."

　　I glanced down at the new patent-leathers which I was wearing."How on earth -" I began, but Holmes answered my question before itwas asked.

　　"Your slippers are new," he said. "You could not have had themmore than a few weeks. The soles which you are at this momentpresenting to me are slightly scorched. For a moment I thought theymight have got wet and been burned in the drying. But near theinstep there is a small circular wafer of paper with the shopman'shieroglyphics upon it. Damp would of course have removed this. Youhad, then, been sitting with your feet outstretched to the fire, whicha man would hardly do even in so wet a June as this if he were inhis full health."

　　Like all Holmes's reasoning the thing seemed simplicity itselfwhen it was once explained. He read the thought upon my features,and his smile had a tinge of bitterness.

　　"I am afraid that I rather give myself away when I explain," saidhe. "Results without causes are much more impressive. You are ready tocome to Birmingham, then?"

　　"Certainly. What is the case?"

　　"You shall hear it all in the train. My client is outside in afour-wheeler. Can you come at once?"

　　"In an instant." I scribbled a note to my neighbour, rushed upstairsto explain the matter to my wife, and joined Holmes upon the doorstep."Your neighbour is a doctor," said he, nodding at the brass plate."Yes, he bought a practice as I did."

　　"An old-established one?"

　　"Just the same as mine. Both have been ever since the houses werebuilt."

　　"Ah! then you got hold of the best of the two."

　　"I think I did. But how do you know?"

　　"By the steps, my boy. Yours are worn three inches deeper thanhis. But this gentleman in the cab is my client, Mr. Hall Pycroft.Allow me to introduce you to him. Whip your horse up, cabby, for wehave only just time to catch our train."

　　The man whom I found myself facing was a well-built,

　　fresh-complexioned young fellow, with a frank, honest face and aslight, crisp, yellow moustache. He wore a very shiny top-hat and aneat suit of sober black, which made him look what he was-a smartyoung City man, of the class who have been labelled cockneys, butwho give us our crack volunteer regiments, and who turn out morefine athletes and sportsmen than any body of men in these islands. Hisround, ruddy face was naturally full of cheeriness, but the corners ofhis mouth seemed to me to be pulled down in a half-comical distress.It was not, however, until we were in a first-class carriage andwell started upon our journey to Birmingham that I was able to learnwhat the trouble was which had driven him to Sherlock Holmes."We have a clear run here of seventy minutes," Holmes remarked. "Iwant you, Mr. Hall Pycroft, to tell my friend your very interestingexperience exactly as you have told it to me, or with more detail ifpossible. It will be of use to me to hear the succession of eventsagain. It is a case, Watson, which may prove to have something init, or may prove to have nothing, but which, at least, presents those:unusual and outre features which are as dear to you as they are to me.Now, Mr. Pycroft I shall not interrupt you again."

　　Our young companion looked at me with a twinkle in his eye."The worst of the story is," said he, "that I show myself up as sucha confounded fool. Of course it may work out all right, and I don'tsee that I could have done otherwise; but if I have lost my crib andget nothing in exchange I shall feel what soft Johnny I have been. I'mnot very good at telling a story, Dr. Watson, but it is like this withme:

　　"I used to have a billet at Coxon & Woodhouse's, of DraperGardens, but they were let in early in the spring through theVenezuelan loan, as no doubt you remember, and came a nasty cropper. Ihave been with them five years, and old Coxon gave me a ripping goodtestimonial when the smash came, but of course we clerks were allturned adrift, the twenty-seven of us. I tried here and tried there,but there were lots of other chaps on the same lay as myself, and itwas a perfect frost for a long time. I had been taking three poundsa week at Coxon's, and I had saved about seventy of them, but I soonworked my way through that and out at the other end. I was fairly atthe end of my tether at last and could hardly find the stamps toanswer the advertisements or the envelopes to stick them to. I hadworn out my boots paddling up office stairs, and I seemed just asfar from getting a billet as ever.

　　"At last I saw a vacancy at Mawson & Williams's, the greatstock-broking firm in Lombard Street. I dare say E. C. is not muchin your line, but I can tell you that this is about the richesthouse in London. The advertisement was to be answered by letteronly. I sent in my testimonial and application, but without theleast hope of getting it. Back came an answer by return, saying thatif I would appear next Monday I might take over my new duties at once,provided that my appearance was satisfactory. No one knows how thesethings are worked. Some people say that the manager just plunges hishand into the heap and takes the first that comes. Anyhow it was myinnings that time, and I don't ever wish to feel better pleased. Thescrew was a pound a week rise, and the duties just about the same asat Coxon's.

　　"And now I come to the queer part of the business. I was in diggingsout Hampstead way, 17 Potter's Terrace. Well, I was sitting doing asmoke that very evening after I had been promised the appointment,when up came my landlady with a card which had 'Arthur Pinner,Financial Agent' printed upon it. I had never heard the name beforeand could not imagine what he wanted with me, but of course I askedher to show him up. In he walked, a middle-sized, dark-haired,dark-eyed, black-bearded man, with a touch of the sheeny about hisnose. He had a brisk kind of way with him and spoke sharply, like aman who knew the value of time.

　　"'Mr. Hall Pycroft, I believe?' said he.

　　"'Yes, sir,' I answered, pushing a chair towards him.

　　"'Lately engaged at Coxon & Woodhouse's?'

　　"'Yes, sir.'

　　"'And now on the staff of Mawson's.'

　　"'Quite so.'

　　"'Well,' said he, 'the fact is that I have heard some reallyextraordinary stories about your financial ability. You rememberParker, who used to be Coxon's manager. He can never say enoughabout it.'

　　"Of course I was pleased to hear this. I had always been prettysharp in the office, but I had never dreamed that I was talked aboutin the City in this fashion.

　　"'You have a good memory?' said he.

　　"'Pretty fair,' I answered modestly.

　　"'Have you kept in touch with the market while you have been outof work?' he asked.

　　"'Yes. I read the stock-exchange list every morning.'

　　"'Now that shows real application!' he cried. 'That is the way toprosper! You won't mind my testing you, will you? Let me see. Howare Ayrshires?'

　　"'A hundred and six and a quarter to a hundred and five andseven-eighths.'

　　"'And New Zealand consolidated?'

　　"'A hundred and four.'

　　"'And British Broken Hills?'

　　"'Seven to seven-and-six.'

　　"'Wonderful!' he cried with his hands up. 'This quite fits in withall that I had heard. My boy, my boy, you are very much too good to bea clerk at Mawson's!'

　　"This outburst rather astonished me, as you can think. 'Well,'said I, 'other people don't think quite so much of me as you seem todo, Mr. Pinner. I had a hard enough fight to get this berth, and Iam very glad to have it.'

　　"'Pooh man; you should soar above it. You are not in your truesphere. Now, I'll tell you how it stands with me. What I have to offeris little enough when measured by your ability, but when compared withMawson's it's light to dark. Let me see. When do you go to Mawson's?'"'On Monday.'

　　"'Ha, ha! I think I would risk a little sporting flutter that youdon't go there at all.'

　　"'Not go to Mawson's?'

　　"'No, sir. By that day you will be the business manager of theFranco-Midland Hardware Company, Limited, with a hundred andthirty-four branches in the towns and villages of France, not countingone in Brussels and one in San Remo.'

　　"This took my breath away. 'I never heard of it,' said I."'Very likely not. It has been kept very quiet, for the capitalwas all privately subscribed, and it's too good a thing to let thepublic into. My brother, Harry Pinner, is promoter, and joins theboard after allotment as managing director. He knew I was in theswim down here and asked me to pick up a good man cheap. A young,pushing man with plenty of snap about him. Parker spoke of you, andthat brought me here to-night. We can only offer you a beggarly fivehundred to start with.'

　　"'Five hundred a year!' I shouted.

　　"'Only that at the beginning; but you are to have an over-ridingcommission of one per cent on all business done by your agents, andyou may take my word for it that this will come to more than yoursalary.'

　　"'But I know nothing about hardware.'

　　"'Tut, my boy, you know about figures.'

　　"My head buzzed, and I could hardly sit still in my chair. Butsuddenly a little chill of doubt came upon me.

　　"'I must be frank with you,' said I. 'Mawson only gives me twohundred, but Mawson is safe. Now, really, I know so little aboutyour company that-'

　　"'Ah, smart, smart!' he cried in a kind of ecstasy of delight.'You are the very man for us. You are not to be talked over, and quiteright, too. Now, here's a note for a hundred pounds, and if youthink that we can do business you may just slip it into your pocket asan advance upon your salary.'

　　"'That is very handsome' said I. When should I take over my newduties?'

　　"'Be in Birmingham at one,' said he. 'I have a note in my pockethere which you will take to my brother. You will find him at 126BCorporation Street, where the temporary offices of the company aresituated. Of course he must confirm your engagement, but betweenourselves it will be all right.'

　　"'Really, I hardly know how to express my gratitude, Mr. Pinner,'said I.

　　"'Not at all, my boy. You have only got your deserts. There areone or two small things-mere formalities-which I must arrange withyou. you have a bit of paper beside you there. Kindly write upon it "Iam perfectly willing to act as business manager to the

　　Franco-Midland Hardware Company, Limited, at a minimum salary ofL500."'

　　"I did as he asked, and he put the paper in his pocket."'There is one other detail,' said he. 'What do you intend to doabout Mawson's?'

　　"I had forgotten all about Mawson's in my joy. 'I'll write andresign,' said I.

　　"'Precisely what I don't want you to do. I had a row over you withMawson's manager. I had gone up to ask him about you, and he wasvery offensive; accused me of coaxing you away from the service of thefirm, and that sort of thing. At last I fairly lost my temper. "If youwant good men you should pay them a good price," said I."'"He would rather have our small price than your big one," said he."'"I'll lay you a fiver," said I, "that when he has my offeryou'll never so much as hear from him again."

　　"'"Done!" said he. "We picked him out of the gutter, and he won'tleave us so easily." Those were his very words.'

　　"'The impudent scoundrel!' I cried. 'I've never so much as seenhim in my life. Why should I consider him in any way? I shallcertainly not write if you would rather I didn't.'

　　"'Good! That's a promise,' said he, rising from his chair. 'Well,I'm delighted to have got so good a man for my brother. Here's youradvance of a hundred pounds, and here is the letter. Make a note ofthe address, 126B Corporation Street, and remember that one o'clockto-morrow is your appointment. Good-night, and may you have aH thefortune that you deserve!'

　　"That's just about all that passed between us, as near as I canremember. You can imagine, Dr. Watson, how pleased I was at such anextraordinary bit of good fortune. I sat up half the night huggingmyself over it, and next day I was off to B in a train that would takeme in plenty time for my appointment. I took my things to a hotel inNew Street, and then I made my way to the address which had been givenme.

　　"It was a quarter of an hour before my time, but I thought thatwould make no difference. 126B was a passage between two largeshops, which led to a winding stone stair, from which there weremany flats, let as offices to companies or professional men. The namesof the occupants were painted at the bottom on the wall, but there wasno such name as the Franco-Midland Hardware Company, Limited. Istood for a few minutes with my heart in my boots, wondering whetherthe whole thing was an elaborate hoax or not, when up came a man andaddressed me. He was very like the chap I had seen the night before,the same figure and voice, but he was clean-shaven and his hair waslighter.

　　"'Are you Mr. Hall Pycroft?' he asked.

　　"'Yes,' said I.

　　"'Oh! I was expecting you, but you are a trifle before your time.I had a note from my brother this morning in which he sang yourpraises very loudly.'

　　"'I was just looking for the offices when you came.'

　　"'We have not got our name up yet, for we only secured thesetemporary premises last week. Come up with me, and we will talk thematter over.'

　　"I followed him to the top of a very lofty stair, and there, rightunder the slates, were a couple of empty, dusty little rooms,uncarpeted and uncurtained, into which he led me. I had thought of agreat office with shining tables and rows of clerks, such as I wasused to, and I daresay I stared rather straight at the two deal chairsand one little table, which with a ledger and a waste-paper basket,made up the whole furniture.

　　"'Don't be disheartened, Mr. Pycroft,' said my new acquaintance,seeing the length of my face. 'Rome was not built in a day, and wehave lots of money at our backs, though we don't cut much dash yetin offices. Pray sit down, and let me have your letter.'"I gave it to him, and he read it over very carefully.

　　"'You seem to have made a vast impression upon my brother Arthur,'said he, 'and I know that he is a pretty shrewd judge. He swears byLondon, you know; and I by Birmingham; but this time I shall followhis advice. Pray consider yourself definitely engaged.'"'What are my duties?' I asked.

　　"'You will eventually manage the great depot in Paris, which willpour a flood of English crockery into the shops of a hundred andthirty-four agents in France. The purchase will be completed in aweek, and meanwhile you will remain in B and make yourself useful.'"'How?'

　　"For answer, he took a big red book out of a drawer.

　　"'This is a directory of Paris,' said he, 'with the trades afterthe names of the people. I want you to take it home with you, and tomark off all the hardware sellers, with their addresses. It would beof the greatest use to me to have them.'

　　"'Surely, there are classified lists?' I suggested.

　　"'Not reliable ones. Their system is different from ours. Stick atit, and let me have the lists by Monday, at twelve. Good-day, Mr.Pycroft. If you continue to show zeal and intelligence you will findthe company a good master.'

　　"I went back to the hotel with the big book under my arm, and withvery conflicting feelings in my breast. On the one hand, I wasdefinitely engaged and had a hundred pounds in my pocket, on theother, the look of the offices, the absence of name on the wall, andother of the points which would strike a business man had left a badimpression as to the position of my employers. However, come whatmight, I had my money, so I settled down to my task. All Sunday Iwas kept hard at work, and yet by Monday I had only got as far as H. Iwent round to my employer, found him in the same dismantled kind ofroom, and was told to keep at it until Wednesday, and then come again.On Wednesday it was still unfinished, so I hammered away untilFriday-that is, yesterday. Then I brought it round to Mr. HarryPinner.

　　"'Thank you very much,' said he, 'I fear that I underrated thedifficulty of the task. This list will be of very materialassistance to me.'

　　"'It took some time,' said I.

　　"'And now,' said he, 'I want you to make a list of the furnitureshops, for they all sell crockery.'

　　"'Very good.'

　　"'And you can come up to-morrow evening at seven and let me know howyou are getting on. Don't overwork yourself. A couple of hours atDay's Music Hall in the evening would do you no harm after yourlabours.' He laughed as he spoke, and I saw with a thrill that hissecond tooth upon the left-hand side had been very badly stuffedwith gold."

　　Sherlock Holmes rubbed his hands with delight, and I stared withastonishment at our client.

　　"You may well look surprised, Dr. Watson, but it is this way," saidhe: "When I was speaking to the other chap in London, at the time thathe laughed at my not going to Mawson's. I happened to notice thathis tooth was stuffed in this very identical fashion. The glint of thegold in each case caught my eye, you see. When I put that with thevoice and figure being the same, and only those things altered whichmight be changed by a razor or a wig, I could not doubt that it wasthe same man. Of course you expect two brothers to be alike, but notthat they should have the same tooth staffed in the same way. He bowedme out, and I found myself in the street, hardly knowing whether I wason my head or my heels. Back I went to my hotel, put my head in abasin of cold water, and tried to think it out. Why had he sent mefrom London to Birmingham? Why had he got there before me? And why hadhe written a letter from himself to himself? It was altogether toomuch for me, and I could make no sense of it. And then suddenly itstruck me that what was dark to me might be very light to Mr. SherlockHolmes. I had just time to get up to town by the night train to seehim this morning, and to bring you both back with me to Birmingham."There was a pause after the stock-broker's clerk had concluded hissurprising experience. Then Sherlock Holmes cocked his eye at me,leaning back on the cushions with a pleased and yet critical face,like a connoisseur who has just taken his first sip of a cometvintage.

　　"Rather fine, Watson, is it not?" said he. "There are points in itwhich please me. I think that you will agree with me that an interviewwith Mr. Arthur Harry Pinner in the temporary offices of theFranco-Midland Hardware Company, limited, would be a ratherinteresting experience for both of us."

　　"But how can we do it?" I asked.

　　"Oh, easily enough," said Hall Pycroft cheerily. "You are twofriends of mine who are in want of a billet, and what could be morenatural than that I should bring you both round to the managingdirector?"

　　"Quite so, of course," said Holmes. "I should like to have a look atthe gentleman and see if I can make anything of his little game.What qualities have you, my friend, which would make your servicesso valuable? Or is it possible that-" He began biting his nails andstaring blankly out of the window, and we hardly drew another wordfrom him until we were in New Street.

　　At seven o'clock that evening we were walking, the three of us, downCorporation Street to the company's offices.

　　"It is no use our being at all before our time," said our client."He only comes there to see me, apparently, for the place isdeserted up to the very hour he names."

　　"That is suggestive," remarked Holmes.

　　"By Jove, I told you so!" cried the clerk. "That's he walkingahead of us there"

　　He pointed to a smallish, dark, well-dressed man who was bustlingalong the other side of the road. As we watched him he looked acrossat a boy who was bawling out the latest edition of the eveningpaper, and, running over among the cabs and busses, he bought one fromhim. Then, clutching it in his hand, he vanished through a doorway."There he goes!' cried Hall Pycroft. These are the company's officesinto which he has gone. Come with me, and I'll fix it up as easilyas possible."

　　Following his lead, we ascended five stories, until we foundourselves outside a half-opened door, at which our client tapped. Avoice within bade us enter, and we entered a bare, unfurnished roomsuch as Hall Pycroft had described. At the single table sat the manwhom we had seen in the street, with his evening paper spread out infront of him, and as he looked up at us it seemed to me that I hadnever looked upon a face which bore such marks of grief, and ofsomething beyond grief-of a horror such as comes to few men in alifetime. His brow glistened with perspiration, his cheeks were of thedull, dead white of a fish's belly, and his eyes were wild andstaring. He looked at his clerk as though he failed to recognizehim, and I could see by the astonishment depicted upon our conductor'sface that this was by no means the usual appearance of his employer."You look ill, Mr. Pinner!" he exclaimed.

　　"Yes, I am not very well," answered the other, making obviousefforts to pull himself together and licking his dry lips before hespoke. "Who are these gentlemen whom you have brought with you?.""One is Mr. Harris, of Bermondsey, and the other is Mr. Price, ofthis town," said our clerk glibly. "They are friends of mine andgentlemen of experience, but they have been out of a place for somelittle time, and they hoped that perhaps you might find an opening forthem in the company's employment."

　　"Very possibly! very possibly!" cried Mr. Pinner with a ghastlysmile. "Yes, I have no doubt that we shall be able to do something foryou. What is your particular line, Mr. Harris?"

　　"I am an accountant," said Holmes.

　　"Ah, yes, we shall want something of the sort. And you, Mr. Price?""A clerk," said I.

　　"I have every hope that the company may accommodate you. I willlet you know about it as soon as we come to any conclusion. And nowI beg that you will go. For God's sake leave me to myself!"These last words were shot out of him, as though the constraintwhich he was evidently setting upon himself had suddenly and utterlyburst asunder. Holmes and I glanced at each other, and Hall Pycrofttook a step towards the table.

　　"You forget, Mr. Pinner, that I am here by appointment to receivesome directions from you," said he.

　　"Certainly, Mr. Pycroft, certainly," the other resumed in a calmertone. "You may wait here a moment and there is no reason why yourfriends should not wait with you. I will be entirely at your servicein three minutes, if I might trespass upon your patience so far." Herose with a very courteous air, and, bowing to us, he passed outthrough a door at the farther end of the room, which he closedbehind him.

　　"What now?" whispered Holmes. "Is he giving us the slip?""Impossible,' answered Pycroft.

　　"Why so?"

　　"That door leads into an inner room."

　　"There is no exit?"

　　"None."

　　"Is it furnished?"

　　"It was empty yesterday."

　　"Then what on earth can he be doing? There is something which Idon't understand in this matter. If ever a man was three parts madwith terror, that man's name is Pinner. What can have put theshivers on him?"

　　"He suspects that we are detectives," I suggested.

　　"That's it," cried Pycroft.

　　Holmes shook his head. "He did not turn pale. He was pale when weentered the room," said he. "It is just possible that-"His words were interrupted by a sharp rat-tat from the directionof the inner door.

　　"What the deuce is he knocking at his own door for?" cried theclerk.

　　Again and much louder came the rat-tat-tat. We all gazed expectantlyat the closed door. Glancing at Holmes, I saw his face turn rigid, andhe leaned forward in intense excitement. Then suddenly came a lowguggling, gargling sound, and a brisk drumming upon woodwork. Holmessprang frantically across the room and pushed at the door. It wasfastened on the inner side. Following his example, we threwourselves upon it with all our weight. One hinge snapped, then theother, and down came the door with a crash. Rushing over it, wefound ourselves in the inner room. It was empty.

　　But it was only for a moment that we were at fault. At one corner,the corner nearest the room which we had left, there was a seconddoor. Holmes sprang to it and pulled it open. A coat and waistcoatwere lying on the floor, and from a hook behind the door, with his ownbraces round his neck, was hanging the managing director of theFranco-Midland Hardware Company. His knees were drawn up, his headhung at a dreadful angle to his body, and the clatter of his heelsagainst the door made the noise which had broken in upon ourconversation. In an instant I had caught him round the waist andheld him up while Holmes and Pycroft untied the elastic bands whichhad disappeared between the livid creases of skin. Then we carried himinto the other room, where he lay with a clay-coloured face, puffinghis purple lips in and out with every breath-a dreadful wreck of allthat he had been but five minutes before.

　　"What do you think of him, Watson?" asked Holmes.

　　I stooped over him and examined him. His pulse was feeble andintermittent, but his breathing grew longer, and there was a littleshivering of his eyelids, which showed a thin white slit of ballbeneath.

　　"It has been touch and go with him," said I, "but he'll live now.Just open that window, and hand me the water carafe." I undid hiscollar, poured the cold water over his face, and raised and sank hisarms until he drew a long, natural breath. "It's only a question oftime now," said I as I turned away from him.

　　Holmes stood by the table, with his hands deep in his trousers'pockets and his chin upon his breast.

　　"I suppose we ought to call the police in now," said he. "And yetI confess that I'd like to give them a complete case when they come.""It's a blessed mystery to me," cried Pycroft, scratching hishead. "Whatever they wanted to bring me all the way up here for, andthen-"

　　"Pooh! All that is clear enough," said Holmes impatiently. "It isthis last sudden move."

　　"You understand the rest, then?"

　　"I think that it is fairly obvious. What do you say, Watson?"I shrugged my shoulders. "I must confess that I am out of mydepths," said I.

　　"Oh, surely if you consider the events at first they can onlypoint to one conclusion."

　　"What do you make of them?"

　　"Well, the whole thing hinges upon two points. The first is themaking of Pycroft write a declaration by which he entered theservice of this preposterous company. Do you not see how verysuggestive that is?"

　　"I am afraid I miss the point."

　　"Well, why did they want him to do it? Not as a business matter, forthese arrangements are usually verbal, and there was no earthlybusiness reason why this should be an exception. Don't you see, myyoung friend, that they were very anxious to obtain a specimen of yourhandwriting, and had no other way of doing it?'

　　"And why?"

　　"Quite so. Why? When we answer that we have made some progresswith our little problem. Why? There can be only one adequate reason.Someone wanted to learn to imitate your writing and had to procure aspecimen of it first. And now if we pass on to the second point wefind that each throws light upon the other. That point is therequest made by Pinner that you should not resign your place, butshould leave the manager of this important business in the fullexpectation that a Mr. Hall Pycroft, whom he had never seen, was aboutto enter the office upon the Monday morning."

　　"My God!" cried our client, "what a blind beetle I have been!""Now you see the point about the handwriting. Suppose that someoneturned up in your place who wrote a completely different hand fromthat in which you had applied for the vacancy, of course the gamewould have been up. But in the interval the rogue had learned toimitate you, and his position was therefore secure, as I presumethat nobody in the office had ever set eyes upon you."

　　"Not a soul," groaned Hall Pycroft.

　　"Very good. Of course it was of the utmost importance to prevent youfrom thinking better of it, and also to keep you from coming intocontact with anyone who might tell you that your double was at work inMawson's office. Therefore they gave you a handsome advance on yoursalary, and ran you off to the Midlands, where they gave you enoughwork to do to prevent your going to London, where you might have bursttheir little game up. That is all plain enough."

　　"But why should this man pretend to be his own brother?""Well, that is pretty clear also. There are evidently only two ofthem in it. The other is impersonating you at the office. This oneacted as your engager, and then found that he could not find you anemployer without admitting a third person into his plot. That he wasmost unwilling to do. He changed his appearance as far as he could,and trusted that the likeness, which you could not fail to observe,would be put down to a family resemblance. But for the happy chance ofthe gold stuffing, your suspicions would probably never have beenaroused."

　　Hall Pycroft shook his clenched hands in the air. "Good Lord!" hecried "while I have been fooled in this way, what has this otherHall Pycroft been doing at Mawson's? What should we do, Mr. Holmes?Tell me what to do."

　　"We must wire to Mawson's."

　　"They shut at twelve on Saturdays."

　　"Never mind. There may be some door-keeper or attendant-""Ah, yes, they keep a permanent guard there on account of thevalue of the securities that they hold. I remember hearing it talkedof in the City."

　　"Very good, we shall wire to him and see if all is well, and if aclerk of your name is working there. That is clear enough, but what isnot so clear is why at sight of us one of the rogues shouldinstantly walk out of the room and hang himself."

　　"The paper!" croaked a voice behind us. The man was sitting up,blanched and ghastly, with returning reason in his eyes, and handswhich rubbed nervously at the broad red band which still encircled histhroat.

　　"The paper! Of course!" yelled Holmes in a paroxysm of excitement."Idiot that I was! I thought so much of our visit that the paper neverentered my head for an instant. To be sure, the secret must liethere." He flattened it out upon the table, and a cry of triumph burstfrom his lips. "Look at this, Watson," he cried. 'It is a Londonpaper, an early edition of the Evening Standard. Here is what we want.Look at the headlines: 'Crime in the City. Murder at Mawson &Williams's. Gigantic Attempted Robbery. Capture of the Criminal.'Here, Watson, we are all equally anxious to hear it, so kindly read italoud to us."

　　It appeared from its position in the paper to have been the oneevent of importance in town, and the account of it ran in this way:"A desperate attempt at robbery, culminating in the death of one manand the capture of the criminal, occurred this afternoon in theCity. For some time back Mawson & Williams, the famous financialhouse, have been the guardians of securities which amount in theaggregate to a sum of considerably over a million sterling. Soconscious was the manager of the responsibility which devolved uponhim in consequence of the great interests at stake that safes of thevery latest construction have been employed, and an armed watchman hasbeen left day and night in the building. It appears that last week anew clerk named Hall Pycroft was engaged by the firm. This personappears to have been none other than Beddington, the famous forger andcracksman, who, with his brother, has only recently emerged from afive years' spell of penal servitude. By some means, which are not yetclear, he succeeded in winning, under a false name, this officialposition in the office, which he utilized in order to obtain mouldingsof various locks, and a thorough knowledge of the position of thestrongroom and the safes.

　　"It is customary at Mawson's for the clerks to leave at midday onSaturday. Sergeant Tuson, of the City police, was somewhatsurprised, therefore, to see a gentleman with a carpet-bag come downthe steps at twenty minutes past one. His suspicions being aroused,the sergeant followed the man, and with the aid of Constable Pollocksucceeded, after a most desperate resistance, in arresting him. It wasat once clear that a daring and gigantic robbery had been committed.Nearly a hundred thousand pounds' worth of American railway bonds,with a large amount of scrip in mines and other companies, wasdiscovered in the bag. On examining the premises the body of theunfortunate watchman was found doubled up and thrust into thelargest of the safes, where it would not have been discovered untilMonday morning had it not been for the prompt action of SergeantTuson. The man's skull had been shattered by a blow from a pokerdelivered from behind. There could be no doubt that Beddington hadobtained entrance pretending that he had left something behind him,and having murdered the watchman, rapidly rifled the large safe, andthen made off with his booty. His brother, who usually works with him,has not appeared in this job as far as can at present beascertained, although the police are making energetic inquiries asto his whereabouts."

　　"Well, we may save the police some little trouble in thatdirection," said Holmes, glancing at the haggard figure huddled upby the window. "Human nature is a strange mixture, Watson. You seethat even a villain and murderer can inspire such affection that hisbrother turns to suicide when he learns that his neck is forfeited.However, we have no choice as to our action. The doctor and I willremain on guard, Mr. Pycroft, if you will have the kindness to stepout for the police."

　　THE END

　　.

　　1893

　　SHERLOCK HOLMES

　　THE YELLOW FACE

　　by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

　　[In publishing these short sketches based upon the numerous cases inwhich my companion's singular gifts have made us the listeners to, andeventually the actors in, some strange drama, it is only naturalthat I should dwell rather upon his successes than upon hisfailures. And this not so much for the sake of his reputation-for,indeed, it was when he was at his wit's end that his energy and hisversatility were most admirable-but because where he failed ithappened too often that no one else succeeded, and that the tale wasleft forever without a conclusion. Now and again, however, itchanced that even when he erred the truth was still discovered. I havenoted of some half-dozen cases of the kind; the adventure of theMusgrave Ritual and that which I am about to recount are the two whichpresent the strongest features of interest.]

　　Sherlock Holmes was a man who seldom took exercise for exercise'ssake. Few men were capable of greater muscular effort, and he wasundoubtedly one of the finest boxers of his weight that I have everseen; but he looked upon aimless bodily exertion as a waste of energy,and he seldom bestirred himself save where there was some professionalobject to be served. Then he was absolutely untiring andindefatigable. That he should have kept himself in training under suchcircumstances is remarkable, but his diet was usually of thesparest, and his habits were simple to the verge of austerity. Savefor the occasional use of cocaine, he had no vices, and he only turnedto the drug as a protest against the monotony of existence whencases were scanty and the papers uninteresting.

　　One day in early spring he had so far relaxed as to go for a walkwith me in the Park, where the first faint shoots of green werebreaking out upon the elms, and the sticky spear-heads of thechestnuts were just beginning to burst into their fivefold leaves. Fortwo hours we rambled about together, in silence for the most part,as befits two men who know each other intimately. It was nearly fivebefore we were back in Baker Street once more.

　　"Beg pardon, sir," said our page-boy as he opened the door. "There'sbeen a gentleman here asking for you, sir."

　　Holmes glanced reproachfully at me. "So much for afternoon walks!"said he.

　　"Has this gentleman gone, then?"

　　"Yes, sir."

　　"Didn't you ask him in?"

　　"Yes, sir, he came in."

　　"How long did he wait?"

　　"Half an hour, sir. He was a very restless gentleman, sir, a-walkin'and a-stampin' all the time he was here. I was waitin' outside thedoor, sir, and I could hear him. At last he outs into the passage, andhe cries, 'Is that man never goin' to come?' Those were his verywords, sir. 'You'll only need to wait a little longer,' says I.'Then I'll wait in the open air, for I feel half choked,' says he.'I'll be back before long.' And with that he ups and he outs, andall I could say wouldn't hold him back."

　　"Well, well, you did your best," said Holmes as we walked into ourroom. "It's very annoying, though, Watson. I was badly in need of acase, and this looks, from the man's impatience, as if it were ofimportance. Hullo! that's not your pipe on the table. He must haveleft his behind him. A nice old brier with a good long stem of whatthe tobacconists call amber. I wonder how many real ambermouthpieces there are in London? Some people think that a fly in it isa sign. Well, he must have been disturbed in his mind to leave apipe behind him which he evidently values highly."

　　"How do you know that he values it highly?" I asked.

　　"Well, I should put the original cost of the pipe at seven andsixpence. Now it has, you see, been twice mended, once in the woodenstem and once in the amber. Each of these mends, done, as you observe,with silver bands, must have cost more than the pipe did originally.The man must value the pipe highly when he prefers to patch it uprather than buy a new one with the same money."

　　"Anything else?" I asked, for Holmes was turning the pipe about inhis hand and staring at it in his peculiar pensive way.He held it up and tapped on it with his long, thin forefinger, asa professor might who was lecturing on a bone.

　　"Pipes are occasionally of extraordinary interest," said he."Nothing has more individuality, save perhaps watches and bootlaces.The indications here, however, are neither very marked nor veryimportant. The owner is obviously a muscular man, left-handed, with anexcellent set of teeth, careless in his habits, and with no need topractise economy."

　　My friend threw out the information in a very offhand way, but I sawthat he cocked his eye at me to see if I had followed his reasoning."You think a man must be well-to-do if he smokes a seven-shillingpipe?" said I.

　　"This is Grosvenor mixture at eightpence an ounce," Holmes answered,knocking a little out on his palm. "As he might get an excellent smokefor half the price, he has no need to practise economy.""And the other points?"

　　"He has been in the habit of lighting his pipe at lamps andgas-jets. You can see that it is quite charred all down one side. Ofcourse a match could not have done that. Why should a man hold a matchto the side of his pipe? But you cannot light it at a lamp withoutgetting the bowl charred. And it is all on the right side of the pipe.From that I gather that he is a left-handed man. You hold your ownPipe to the lamp and see how naturally you, being right-handed, holdthe left side to the flame. You might do it once the other way, butnot as a constancy. This has always been held so. Then he has bittenthrough his amber. It takes a muscular, energetic fellow, and one witha good set of teeth, to do that. But if I am not mistaken I hear himupon the stair, so we shall have something more interesting than hispipe to study."

　　An instant later our door opened, and a tall young man entered theroom. He was well but quietly dressed in a dark gray suit andcarried a brown wide awake in his hand. I should have put him at aboutthirty, though he was really some years older.

　　"I beg your pardon," said he with some embarrassment, "I suppose Ishould have knocked. Yes, of course I should have knocked. The fact isthat I am a little upset, and you must put it all down to that." Hepassed his hand over his forehead like a man who is half dazed, andthen fell rather than sat down upon a chair.

　　"I can see that you have not slept for a night or two," saidHolmes in his easy, genial way. "That tries a man's nerves more thanwork, and more even than pleasure. May I ask how I can help you?""I wanted your advice, sir. I don't know what to do, and my wholelife seems to have gone to pieces."

　　"You wish to employ me as a consulting detective?"

　　Not that only. I want your opinion as a judicious man-as a man ofthe world. I want to know what I ought to do next. I hope to Godyou'll be able to tell me."

　　He spoke in little, sharp, jerky outbursts, and it seemed to me thatto speak at all was very painful to him, and that his will all throughwas overriding his inclinations.

　　"It's a very delicate thing," said he. "One does not like to speakof one's domestic affairs to strangers. It seems dreadful to discussthe conduct of one's wife with two men whom I have never seenbefore. It's horrible to have to do it. But I've got to the end ofmy tether, and I must have advice."

　　"My dear Mr. Grant Munro--" began Holmes.

　　Our visitor sprang from his chair. "What!" he cried, "you know myname?"

　　"If you wish to preserve your incognito," said Holmes, smiling, "Iwould suggest that you cease to write your name upon the lining ofyour hat, or else that you turn the crown towards the person whomyou are addressing. I was about to say that my friend and I havelistened to a good many strange secrets in this room, and that we havehad the good fortune to bring peace to many troubled souls. I trustthat we may do as much for you. Might I beg you, as time may proveto be of importance, to furnish me with the facts of your case withoutfurther delay?"

　　Our visitor again passed his hand over his forehead, as if hefound it bitterly hard. From every gesture and expression I couldsee that he was a reserved selfcontained man, with a dash of pridein his nature, more likely to hide his wounds than to expose them.Then suddenly, with a fierce gesture of his closed hand, like onewho throws reserve to the winds, he began:

　　"The facts are these, Mr. Holmes," said he. "I am a married manand have been so for three years. During that time my wife and Ihave loved each other as fondly and lived as happily as any two thatever were joined. We have not had a difference, not one, in thought orword or deed. And now, since last Monday, there has suddenly sprung upa barrier between us, and I find that there is something in her lifeand in her thoughts of which I know as little as if she were the womanwho brushes by me in the street. We are estranged, and I want toknow why.

　　"Now there is one thing that I want to impress upon you before Igo any further, Mr. Holmes. Effie loves me. Don't let there be anymistake about that. She loves me with her whole heart and soul, andnever more than now. I know it. I feel it. I don't want to argue aboutthat. A man can tell easily enough when a woman loves him. But there'sthis secret between us, and we can never be the same until it iscleared."

　　"Kindly let me have the facts, Mr. Munro," said Holmes with someimpatience.

　　"I'll tell you what I know about Effie's history. She was a widowwhen I met her first, though quite young-only twenty-five. Her namethen was Mrs. Hebron. She went out to America when she was young andlived in the town of Atlanta, where she married this Hebron, who was alawyer with a good practice. They had one child, but the yellowfever broke out badly in the place, and both husband and child died ofit. I have seen his death certificate. This sickened her of America,and she came back to live with a maiden aunt at Pinner, inMiddlesex. I may mention that her husband had left her comfortablyoff, and that she had a capital of about four thousand five hundredpounds, which had been so well invested by him that it returned anaverage of seven per cent. She had only been six months at Pinner whenI met her; we fell in love with each other, and we married a few weeksafterwards.

　　"I am a hop merchant myself, and as I have an income of seven oreight hundred, we found ourselves comfortably off and took a niceeighty-pound-a-year villa at Norbury. Our little place was verycountrified, considering that it is so close to town. We had an innand two houses a little above us, and a single cottage at the otherside of the field which faces us, and except those there were nohouses until you got halfway to the station. My business took meinto town at certain seasons, but in summer I had less to do, and thenin our country home my wife and I were just as happy as could bewished. I tell you that there never was a shadow between us until thisaccursed affair began.

　　"There's one thing I ought to tell you before I go further. Whenwe married, my wife made over all her property to me-rather against mywill, for I saw how awkward it would be if my business affairs wentwrong. However, she would have it so, and it was done. Well, about sixweeks ago she came to me.

　　"'Jack,' said she, 'when you took my money you said that if ever Iwanted any I was to ask you for it.'

　　"'Certainly,' said I. 'It's all your own.'

　　"'Well,' said she, 'I want a hundred pounds.'

　　"I was a bit staggered at this, for I had imagined it was simply anew dress or something of the kind that she was after.

　　"'What on earth for?' I asked.

　　"'Oh,' said she in her playful way, 'You said that you were onlymy banker, and bankers never ask questions, you know.'

　　"'If you really mean it, of course you shall have the money,' saidI.

　　"'Oh, yes, I really mean it.'

　　"'And you won't tell me what you want it for?'

　　"'Some day, perhaps, but not just at present, Jack.'

　　"So I had to be content with that, though it was the first time thatthere had ever been any secret between us. I gave her a check, and Inever thought any more of the matter. It may have nothing to do withwhat came afterwards, but I thought it only right to mention it."Well, I told you just now that there is a cottage not far fromour house. There is just a field between us, but to reach it youhave to go along the road and then turn down a lane. Just beyond it isa nice little grove of Scotch firs, and I used to be very fond ofstrolling down there, for trees are always a neighbourly kind ofthing. The cottage had been standing empty this eight months, and itwas a pity, for it was a pretty two-storied place, with anold-fashioned porch and a honeysuckle about it. I have stood many atime and thought what a neat little homestead it would make."Well, last Monday evening I was taking a stroll down that waywhen I met an empty van coming up the lane and saw a pile of carpetsand things lying about on the grass-plot beside the porch. It wasclear that the cottage had at last been let. I walked past it, andthen stopping, as an idle man might, I ran my eye over it and wonderedwhat sort of folk they were who had come to live so near us. And asI looked I suddenly became aware that a face was watching me out ofone of the upper windows.

　　"I don't know what there was about that face, Mr. Holmes, but itseemed to send a chill right down my back. I was some little wayoff, so that I could not make out the features, but there wassomething unnatural and inhuman about the face. That was theimpression that I had, and I moved quickly forward to get a nearerview of the person who was watching me. But as I did so the facesuddenly disappeared, so suddenly that it seemed to have beenplucked away into the darkness of the room. I stood for five minutesthinking the business over and trying to analyze my impressions. Icould not tell if the face was that of a man or a woman. It had beentoo far from me for that. But its colour was what had impressed memost. It was of a livid chalky white, and with something set and rigidabout it which was shockingly unnatural. So disturbed was I that Idetermined to see a little more of the new inmates of the cottage. Iapproached and knocked at the door, which was instantly opened by atall, gaunt woman with a harsh, forbidding face.

　　"'What may you be wantin'?' she asked in a Northern accent."'I am your neighbour over yonder,' said I, nodding towards.myhouse. 'I see that you have only just moved in, so I thought that if Icould be of any help to you in any-'

　　"'Ay, we'll just ask ye when we want ye,' said she, and shut thedoor in my face. Annoyed at the churlish rebuff, I turned my backand walked home. All evening, though I tried to think of otherthines my mind would still turn to the apparition at the window andthe rudeness of the woman. I determined to say nothing about theformer to my wife, for she is a nervous, highly strung woman, and Ihad no wish that she should share the unpleasant impression whichhad been produced upon myself. I remarked to her, however, before Ifell asleep, that the cottage was now occupied, to which shereturned no reply.

　　"I am usually an extremely sound sleeper. It has been a standingjest in the family that nothing could ever wake me during the night.And yet somehow on that particular night, whether it may have been theslight excitement produced by my little adventure or not I know not,but I slept much more lightly than usual. Half in my dreams I wasdimly conscious that something was going on in the room, and graduallybecame aware that my wife had dressed herself and was slipping onher mantle and her bonnet. My lips were parted to murmur out somesleepy words of surprise or remonstrance at this untimely preparation,when suddenly my half-opened eyes fell upon her face, illuminated bythe candle-light, and astonishment held me dumb. She wore anexpression such as I had never seen before-such as I should havethought her incapable of assuming. She was deadly pale and breathingfast, glancing furtively towards the bed as she fastened her mantle tosee if she had disturbed me. Then, thinking that I was still asleep,she slipped noiselessly from the room, and an instant later I hearda sharp creaking which could only come from the hinges of the frontdoor. I sat up in bed and rapped my knuckles against the rail tomake certain that I was truly awake. Then I took my watch from underthe pillow. It was three in the morning. What on this earth could mywife be doing out on the country road at three in the morning?"I had sat for about twenty minutes turning the thing over in mymind and trying to find some possible explanation. The more I thought,the more extraordinary and inexplicable did it appear. I was stillpuzzling over it when I heard the door gently close again, and herfootsteps coming up the stairs.

　　"'Where in the world have you been, Effie?' I asked as she entered."She gave a violent start and a kind of gasping cry when I spoke,and that cry and start troubled me more than all the rest, for therewas something indescribably guilty about them. My wife had always beena woman of a frank, open nature, and it gave me a chill to see herslinking into her own room and crying out and wincing when her ownhusband spoke to her.

　　"'You awake, Jack!' she cried with a nervous laugh. 'Why, Ithought that nothing could awake you.'

　　"'Where have you been?' I asked, more sternly.

　　"'I don't wonder that you are surprised,' said she, and I couldsee that her fingers were trembling as she undid the fastenings of hermantle. 'Why, I never remember having done such a thing in my lifebefore. The fact is that I felt as though I were choking and had aperfect longing for a breath of fresh air. I really think that Ishould have fainted if I had not gone out. I stood at the door for afew minutes, and now I am quite myself again.'

　　"All the time that she was telling me this story she never oncelooked in my direction, and her voice was quite unlike her usualtones. It was evident to me that she was saying what was false. I saidnothing in reply, but turned my face to the wall, sick at heart,with my mind filled with a thousand venomous doubts and suspicions.What was it that my wife was concealing from me? Where had she beenduring that strange expedition? I felt that I should have no peaceuntil I knew, and yet I shrank from asking her again after once shehad told me what was false. All the rest of the night I tossed andtumbled, framing theory after theory, each more unlikely than thelast.

　　"I should have gone to the City that day, but I was too disturbed inmy mind to be able to pay attention to business matters. My wifeseemed to be as upset as myself, and I could see from the littlequestioning glances which she kept shooting at me that sheunderstood that I disbelieved her statement, and that she was at herwit's end what to do. We hardly exchanged a word during breakfast, andimmediately afterwards I went out for a walk that I might think thematter out in the fresh morning air.

　　"I went as far as the Crystal Palace, spent an hour in thegrounds, and was back in Norbury by one o'clock. It happened that myway took me past the cottage, and I stopped for an instant to lookat the windows and to see if I could catch a glimpse of the strangeface which had looked out at me on the day before. As I stood there,imagine my surprise, Mr. Holmes, when the door suddenly opened andmy wife walked out.

　　"I was struck dumb with astonishment at the sight of her, but myemotions were nothing to those which showed themselves upon her facewhen our eyes met. She seemed for an instant to wish to shrink backinside the house again; and then, seeing how useless all concealmentmust be, she came forward, with a very white face and frightenedeyes which belied the smile upon her lips.

　　"'Ah, Jack,' she said, 'I have just been in to see if I can be ofany assistance to our new neighbours. Why do you look at me like that,Jack? You are not angry with me?'

　　"'So,' said I, 'this is where you went during the night.'"What do you mean?' she cried.

　　"'You came here. I am sure of it. Who are these people that youshould visit them at such an hour?'

　　"'I have not been here before.'

　　"'How can you tell me what you know is false?' I cried. 'Your veryvoice changes as you speak. When have I ever had a secret from you?I shall enter that cottage, and I shall probe the matter to thebottom.'

　　"'No, no, Jack, for God's sake!' she gasped in uncontrollableemotion. Then, as I approached the door, she seized my sleeve andpulled me back with convulsive strength.

　　"'I implore you not to do this, Jack,' she cried. 'I swear that Iwill tell you everything some day, but nothing but misery can comeof it if you enter that cottage.' Then, as I tried to shake her off,she clung to me in a frenzy of entreaty.

　　"'Trust me, Jack!' she cried. 'Trust me only this once. You willnever have cause to regret it. You know that I would not have a secretfrom you if it were not for your own sake. Our whole lives are atstake in this. If you come home with me all will be well. If you forceyour way into that cottage all is over between us.'

　　"There was such earnestness, such despair, in her manner that herwords arrested me, and I stood irresolute before the door."'I will trust you on one condition, and on one condition only,'said I at last. 'It is that this mystery comes to an end from now. Youare at liberty to preserve your secret, but you must promise me thatthere shall be no more nightly visits, no more doings which are keptfrom my knowledge. I am willing to forget those which are past ifyou will promise that there shall be no more in the future.'"'I was sure that you would trust me,' she cried with a great sighof relief. 'It shall be just as you wish. Come away-oh, come away upto the house.'

　　"Still pulling at my sleeve, she led me away from the cottage. As wewent I glanced back, and there was that yellow livid face watchingus out of the upper window. What link could there be between thatcreature and my wife? Or how could the coarse, rough woman whom Ihad seen the day before be connected with her? It was a strangepuzzle, and yet I knew that my mind could never know ease againuntil I had solved it.

　　"For two days after this I stayed at home, and my wife appeared toabide loyally by our engagement, for, as far as I know, she neverstirred out of the house. on the third day, however, I had ampleevidence that her solemn promise was not enough to hold her backfrom this secret influence which drew her away from her husband andher duty.

　　"I had gone into town on that day, but I returned by the 2:40instead of the 3:36, which is my usual train. As I entered the housethe maid ran into the hall with a startled face.

　　"'Where is your mistress?' I asked.

　　"'I think that she has gone out for a walk,' she answered."My mind was instantly filled with suspicion. I rushed upstairs tomake sure that she was not in the house. As I did so I happened toglance out of one of the upper windows and saw the maid with whom Ihad just been speaking running across the field in the direction ofthe cottage. Then of course I saw exactly what it all meant. My wifehad gone over there and had asked the servant to call her if Ishould return. Tingling with anger, I rushed down and hurriedacross, determined to end the matter once and forever. I saw my wifeand the maid hurrying back along the lane, but I did not stop to speakwith them. In the cottage lay the secret which was casting a shadowover my life. I vowed that, come what might, it should be a secretno longer. I did not even knock when I reached it, but turned thehandle and rushed into the passage.

　　"It was all still and quiet upon the ground floor. In the kitchena kettle was singing on the fire, and a large black cat lay coiledup in the basket; but there was no sign of the woman whom I had seenbefore. I ran into the other room, but it was equally deserted. Then Irushed up the stairs only to find two other rooms empty and desertedat the top. There was no one at all in the whole house. Thefurniture and pictures were of the most common and vulgar description,save in the one chamber at the window of which I had seen thestrange face. That was comfortable and elegant, and all mysuspicions rose into a fierce, bitter flame when I saw that on themantelpiece stood a copy of a full-length photograph of my wife, whichhad been taken at my request only three months ago.

　　"I stayed long enough to make certain that the house wasabsolutely empty. Then I left it, feeling a weight at my heart such asI had never had before. My wife came out into the hall as I entered myhouse; but I was too hurt and angry to speak with her, and, pushingpast her, I made my way into my study. She followed me, however,before I could close the door.

　　"'I am sorry that I broke my promise, Jack,' said she, 'but if youknew all the circumstances I am sure that you would forgive me.'"'Tell me everything, then,' said I.

　　"'I cannot, Jack, I cannot,' she cried.

　　"'Until you tell me who it is that has been living in thatcottage, and who it is to whom you have given that photograph, therecan never be any confidence between us,' said I, and breaking awayfrom her I left the house. That was yesterday, Mr. Holmes, and Ihave not seen her since, nor do I know anything more about thisstrange business. It is the first shadow that has come between us, andit has so shaken me that I do not know what I should do for thebest. Suddenly this morning it occurred to me that you were the man toadvise me, so I have hurried to you now, and I place myselfunreservedly in your hands. If there is any point which I have notmade clear, pray question me about it. But, above all, tell me quicklywhat I am to do, for this misery is more than I can bear."Holmes and I had listened with the utmost interest to thisextraordinary statement, which had been delivered in the jerky, brokenfashion of a man who is under the influence of extreme emotion. Mycompanion sat silent now for some time, with his chin upon his hand,lost in thought.

　　"Tell me," said he at last, "could you swear that this was a man'sface which you saw at the window?"

　　"Each time that I saw it I was some distance away from it, so thatit is impossible for me to say."

　　"You appear, however, to have been disagreeably impressed by it.""It seemed to be of an unusual colour and to have a strange rigidityabout the features. When I approached it vanished with a jerk.""How long is it since your wife asked you for a hundred pounds?""Nearly two months."

　　"Have you ever seen a photograph of her first husband?""No, there was a great fire at Atlanta very shortly after his death,and all her papers were destroyed."

　　"And yet she had a certificate of death. You say that you saw it.""Yes, she got a duplicate after the fire."

　　"Did you ever meet anyone who knew her in America?"

　　"No."

　　"Did she ever talk of revisiting the place?"

　　"No."

　　"Or get letters from it?"

　　"No."

　　"Thank you. I should like to think over the matter a little now.If the cottage is now permanently deserted we may have somedifficulty. If, on the other hand, as I fancy is more likely, theinmates were warned of your coming and left before you enteredyesterday, then they may be back now, and we should clear it all upeasily. Let me advise you, then, to return to Norbury and to examinethe windows of the cottage again. If you have reason to believe thatit is inhabited, do not force your way in, but send a wire to myfriend and me. We shall be with you within an hour of receiving it,and we shall then very soon get to the bottom of the business.""And if it is still empty?"

　　"In that case I shall come out to-morrow and talk it over withyou. Good-bye, and, above all, do not fret until you know that youreally have a cause for it."

　　"I am afraid that this is a bad business, Watson," said my companionas he returned after accompanying Mr. Grant Munro to the door. "Whatdo you make of it?"

　　"It had an ugly sound," I answered.

　　"Yes. There's blackmail in it, or I am much mistaken."

　　"And who is the blackmailer?"

　　"Well, it must be the creature who lives in the only comfortableroom in the place and has her photograph above his fireplace. Uponmy word, Watson, there is something very attractive about that lividface at the window, and I would not have missed the case for worlds.""You have a theory?"

　　"Yes, a provisional one. But I shall be surprised if it does notturn out to be correct. This woman's first husband is in thatcottage."

　　"Why do you think so?"

　　"How else can we explain her frenzied anxiety that her second oneshould not enter it? The facts, as I read them, are something likethis: This woman was married in America. Her husband developed somehateful qualities, or shall we say he contracted some loathsomedisease and became a leper or an imbecile? She flies from him at last,returns to England, changes her name, and starts her life, as shethinks, afresh. She has been married three years and believes that herposition is quite secure, having shown her husband the deathcertificate of some man whose name she has assumed, when suddenlyher whereabouts is discovered by her first husband, or, we maysuppose, by some unscrupulous woman who has attached herself to theinvalid. They write to the wife and threaten to come and expose her.She asks for a hundred pounds and endeavours to buy them off. Theycome in spite of it, and when the husband mentions casually to thewife that there are newcomers in the cottage, she knows in some waythat they are her pursuers. She waits until her husband is asleep, andthen she rushes down to endeavour to persuade them to leave her inpeace. Having no success, she goes again next morning, and her husbandmeets her, as he has told us, as she comes out. She promises himthen not to go there again, but two days afterwards the hope ofgetting rid of those dreadful neighbours was too strong for her, andshe made another attempt, taking down with her the photograph whichhad probably been demanded from her. In the midst of this interviewthe maid rushed in to say that the master had come home, on whichthe wife, knowing that he would come straight down to the cottage,hurried the inmates out at the back door, into the grove of fir-trees,probably, which was mentioned as standing near. In this way he foundthe place deserted. I shall be very much surprised, however, if itis still so when he reconnoitres it this evening. What do you think ofmy theory?"

　　"It is all surmise."

　　"But at least it covers all the facts. After new facts come to ourknowledge which cannot be covered by it, it will be time enough toreconsider it. We can do nothing more until we have a message from ourfriend at Norbury."

　　But we had not a very long time to wait for that. It came just as webad finished our tea.

　　The cottage is still tenanted [it said]. Have seen the faceagain at the window. Will meet the seven-o'clock train and will takeno steps until you arrive.

　　He was waiting on the platform when we stepped out, and we could seein the light of the station lamps that he was very pale, and quiveringwith agitation.

　　"They are still there, Mr. Holmes," said he, laying his hand hardupon my friend's sleeve. "I saw lights in the cottage as I camedown. We shall settle it now once and for all."

　　"What is your plan, then?" asked Holmes as he walked down the darktree-lined road.

　　"I am going to force my way in and see for myself who is in thehouse. I wish you both to be there as witnesses."

　　"You are quite determined to do this in spite of your wife's warningthat it is better that you should not solve the mystery?""Yes, I am determined."

　　"Well, I think that you are in the right. Any truth is better thanindefinite doubt. We had better go up at once. Of course, legally,we are putting ourselves hopelessly in the wrong; but I think thatit is worth it."

　　It was a very dark night, and a thin rain began to fall as we turnedfrom the highroad into a narrow lane, deeply rutted, with hedges oneither side. Mr. Grant Munro pushed impatiently forward, however,and we stumbled after him as best we could.

　　"There are the lights of my house," he murmured, pointing to aglimmer among the trees. "And here is the cottage which I am goingto enter."

　　We turned a corner in the lane as he spoke, and there was thebuilding close beside us. A yellow bar falling across the blackforeground showed that the door was not quite closed, and one windowin the upper story was brightly illuminated. As we looked, we saw adark blur moving across the blind.

　　"There is that creature!" cried Grant Munro. "You can see foryourselves that someone is there. Now follow me, and we shall soonknow all."

　　We approached the door, but suddenly a woman appeared out of theshadow and stood in the golden track of the lamplight. I could not seeher face in the darkness, but her arms were thrown out in anattitude of entreaty.

　　"For God's sake, don't, Jack!" she cried. "I had a presentiment thatyou would come this evening. Think better of it, dear! Trust me again,and you will never have cause to regret it."

　　"I have trusted you too long, Effie," he cried sternly. "Leave go ofme! I must pass you. My friends and I are going to settle thismatter once and forever!" He pushed her to one side, and we followedclosely after him. As he threw the door open an old woman ran out infront of him and tried to bar his passage, but he thrust her back, andan instant afterwards we were all upon the stairs. Grant Munrorushed into the lighted room at the top, and we entered at his heels.It was a cosy, well-furnished apartment, with two candles burningupon the table and two upon the mantelpiece. In the corner, stoopingover a desk, there sat what appeared to be a little girl. Her face wasturned away as we entered, but we could see that she was dressed ina red frock, and that she had long white gloves on. As she whiskedround to us, I gave a cry of surprise and horror. The face which sheturned towards us was of the strangest livid tint, and the featureswere absolutely devoid of any expression. An instant later the mysterywas explained. Holmes, with a laugh, passed his hand behind thechild's ear, a mask peeled off from her countenance, and there was alittle coal-black negress, with all her white teeth flashing inamusement at our amazed faces. I burst out laughing, out of sympathywith her merriment; but Grant Munro stood staring, with his handclutching his throat.

　　"My God!" he cried. "What can be the meaning of this?"

　　"I will tell you the meaning of it," cried the lady, sweeping intothe room with a proud, set face. "You have forced me, against my ownjudgment, to tell you, and now we must both make the best of it. Myhusband died at Atlanta. My child survived."

　　"Your child?"

　　She drew a large silver locket from her bosom. "You have neverseen this open."

　　"I understood that it did not open."

　　She touched a spring, and the front hinged back. There was aportrait within of a man strikingly handsome and

　　intelligent-looking, but bearing unmistakable signs upon hisfeatures of his African descent.

　　"That is John Hebron, of Atlanta," said the lady, "and a noblerman never walked the earth. I cut myself off from my race in orderto wed him, but never once while he lived did I for an instantregret it. It was our misfortune that our only child took after hispeople rather than mine. It is often so in such matches, and littleLucy is darker far than ever her father was. But dark or fair, sheis my own dear little girlie, and her mother's pet." The littlecreature ran across at the words and nestled up against the lady'sdress. "When I left her in America," she continued, "it was onlybecause her health was weak, and the change might have done herharm. She was given to the care of a faithful Scotch woman who hadonce been our servant. Never for an instant did I dream of disowningher as my child. But when chance threw you in my way, Jack, and Ilearned to love you, I feared to tell you about my child. Godforgive me, I feared that I should lose you, and I had not the courageto tell you. I had to choose between you, and in my weakness Iturned away from my own little girl. For three years I have kept herexistence a secret from you, but I heard from the nurse, and I knewthat all was well with her. At last, however, there came anoverwhelming desire to see the child once more. I struggled againstit, but in vain. Though I knew the danger, I determined to have thechild over, if it were but for a few weeks. I sent a hundred pounds tothe nurse, and I gave her instructions about this cottage, so that shemight come as a neighbour, without my appearing to be in any wayconnected with her. I pushed my precautions so far as to order herto keep the child in the . p house during the daytime, and to cover upher little face and hands so that even those who might see her atthe window should not gossip about there being a black child in theneighbourhood. If I had been less cautious I might have been morewise, but I was half crazy with fear that you should learn the truth."It was you who told me first that the cottage was occupied. Ishould have waited for the morning, but I could not sleep forexcitement, and so at last I slipped out, knowing how difficult itis to awake you. But you saw me go, and that was the beginning of mytroubles. Next day you had my secret at your mercy, but you noblyrefrained from pursuing your advantage. Three days later, however, thenurse and child only just escaped from the back door as you rushedin at the front one. And now to-night you at last know all, and Iask you what is to become of us, my child and me?" She clasped herhands and waited for an answer.

　　It was a long ten minutes before Grant Munro broke the silence,and when his answer came it was one of which I love to think. Helifted the little child, kissed her, and then, still carrying her,he held his other hand out to his wife and turned towards the door."We can talk it over more comfortably at home," said he. "I am not avery good man, Effie, but I think that I am a better one than you havegiven me credit for being."

　　Holmes and I followed them down the lane, and my friend plucked atmy sleeve as we came out.

　　"I think," said he, "that we shall be of more use in London thanin Norbury."

　　Not another word did he say of the case until late that night,when he was turning away, with his lighted candle, for his bedroom."Watson," said he, "if it should ever strike you that I am getting alittle overconfident in my powers, or giving less pains to a case thanit deserves, kindly whisper 'Norbury' in my ear, and I shall beinfinitely obliged to you."